[null, null, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "420", "description": "L/L 420. Fundamentals of Human Anatomy. (L) Dr.  Neal Rubinstein. Prerequisite(s): Permission of department. \n\nThis course will provide the student with an opportunity to acquire a first-hand knowledge of structural and functional human anatomy.  The course will consist of lectures and demonstrations on prosected human cadavers, student dissections of human cadavers, and introduction to various imaging modalities, including CT scans, MRIs, and 3D radiological imaging.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "420. Fundamentals of Human Anatomy. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "501", "description": "501. Human Anatomy: Head and Neck. (M) Drs Weisel & Teresi (Dir.), Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor; open to graduate and professional students only. \n\nThis course in gross anatomy provides the student with an opportunity to acquire a first-hand knowledge of structural and functional human anatomy. The basic principle of learning is student dissection of the cadaver, supplemented by lectures, conferences, demonstrations, computer software, and independent study.  The goals of the course are: to give the student a solid foundation of anatomical knowledge as a background for clinical education/practice or research; to prepare students for future, independent study of anatomy; to prepare students for the physical examination of the patient or research involving analysis of anatomical specimens; and to introduce new applications of gross anatomy for the physician and the biomedical student.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "501. Human Anatomy: Head and Neck. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "502", "description": "502. Gross Human Anatomy. (M) Drs Weisel & Teresi (Dir.), Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor; open to graduate and professional students only. \n\nThis course in gross anatomy provides the student with an opportunity to acqu a first hand knowledge of structural and funtional human anatomy.  The basic principle of learning is student disection of the cadaver, supplemed by lectures, conferences, demonstrations, computer software, and independent study.  The goals of the course are: to give the student a sollid foundation of anatomical knowledge as a background for clinical education/practice or research; to prepare students for future, independent studf anatomy; to prepare students for the physical examination of the patient or research involving analysis anatomical specimens; and to introduce new applications of gross anamtomy for the physician and biomedal scientist.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "502. Gross Human Anatomy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "505", "description": "505. Structural Adaptations to Function. (A) Dr Orsini and Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor in Veterinary School. \n\nVeterinary gross anatomy course.  The basic principles of mammalian and avian anatomy are studied in a veterinary context.  The laboratory periods are given to the dissection of the dog, cat, horse, various ruminants, various laboratory animals, chicken and fish.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "505. Structural Adaptations to Function. (A) "}]