[null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "001", "description": "L/R 001. Introduction to Archaeology. (C) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Staff. \n\nAn introduction to the history, concepts, and methods of the anthropological study of ancient peoples using archaeological illustrations to indicate the relationships of archaeological interpretations with cultural and physical anthropology.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "001. Introduction to Archaeology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "002", "description": "L/R 002. The Anthropological Study of Culture. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Staff. \n\nAn introduction to the study of culture and human institutions, how they change, and their role in both literate and nonliterate societies.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "002. The Anthropological Study of Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "003", "description": "L/R 003. Introduction to Human Evolution. (C) Living World Sector. All classes. Monge or Fernandez-Duque. \n\nHow did humans evolve?  When did humans start to walk on two legs?  How are humans related to non-human primates?  This course focuses on the scientific study of human evolution describing the emergence, development, and diversification of our species, Homo sapiens.  First we cover the fundamental principles of evolutionary theory and some of the basics of genetics and heredity as they relate to human morphological, physiological, and genetic variation. \n\nWe then examine what studies of nonhuman primates (monkeys and apes) can reveal about our own evolutionary past, reviewing the behavioral and ecological diversity seen among living primates.  We conclude the course examining the \"hard\" evidence of human evolution - the fossil and material culture record of human history from our earliest primate ancestors to the emergence of modern Homo sapiens.  You will also have the opportunity, during recitations, to conduct hands-on exercises collecting and analyzing behavioral, morphological, and genetic data on both humans and nonhuman primates and working with the Department of Anthropology's extensive collection of fossil casts.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "003. Introduction to Human Evolution. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "004", "description": "L/R 004. The Modern World and Its Cultural Background. (B) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Urban. Also fulfills General Requirement in Society for Class of 2009 and prior. \n\nAn introduction to the diversity of cultures in the world.  This course is divided into two parts.  The first briefly examines different models of understanding human diversity: ethnicities, religions, languages, political forms, economic structures, cultures, and \"civilizations\".  Students will learn to think about the world as an interconnected whole, and know the significance of culture on a global scale.  The second part is an introduction to area studies, in which we undertake a survey of the diffrent regions of the world.  This semester we focus on Asia, specifically East Asia, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia.  We conduct the survey paying attention to the different aspects of human diversities, which we examine in the first part of this course.  Students will acquire a greater appreciation and understanding of cultural differences in the more comprehensive social context.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "004. The Modern World and Its Cultural Background. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HIST012, SOCI012)", "num": "012", "description": "L/R 012. (HIST012, SOCI012) Globalization And Its Historical Significance. (C) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Spooner. \n\nThis course uses data from what is actually happening in the course of the semester to introduce the concepts and methods of the social sciences.  It analyzes the current state of globalization and sets it in historical perspective.  We will focus on a series of questions not only about actual processes but about the growing awareness of them, and the consequences of this awareness.  In answering these questions, we will distinguish between active campaigns to cover the world (e.g., Christian and Muslim proselytism, opening up markets, democratization) and the unplanned diffusion of new ways of organizing trade, capital flows, tourism and the Internet.  The body of the course will deal with a series of analytical types of globalization, reviewing both the early and recent history of these processes.  The overall approach will be historical and comparative, setting globalization on the larger stage of the economic, political and cultural development of various parts of the modern world.  The course is taught collaboratively by two social scientists: an anthropologist and a sociologist, offering the opportunity to compare and contrast two distinct disciplinary points of view.  It seeks to develop a concept-based understanding of the various dimensions of globalization: economic, political, social, and cultural. \n\n At the end of the course students will understand the significance of globalization in the modern world, and be able to compare the approaches of different social sciences.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "012. (HIST012, SOCI012) Globalization And Its Historical Significance. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(AFRC018, AFST018)", "num": "018", "description": "SM 018. (AFRC018, AFST018) Popular Culture in Africa. (C) Barnes. Freshman Seminar. \n\nThis course concentrates on popular culture in sub-Saharan Africa.  It examines the way people reflect on and represent various aspects and issues in their daily lives, in public media, and through a diverse range of performative and creative outlets.  It explores the way cultural traditions are created, promulgated, and perpetuated.  It looks at the way popular culture deals with pleasure and pain; identity difference, and diversity; wealth and power; modernity and history; gender relations; suppression, resistance, and violence; and local versus global processes.  In short, popular culture will serve as a window through which to observe contemporary life.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "018. (AFRC018, AFST018) Popular Culture in Africa. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(LALS032)", "num": "032", "description": "SM 032. (LALS032) The Rise and Fall of Ancient Maya Civilization. (M) Staff. Freshman Seminar. \n\nThe civilization of the ancient Maya, which flourished between approximately 1000 B.C. and the Spanish Conquest of the sixteenth century A.D. in what is now southern Mexico and northern Central America, has long been of wide public interest.  The soaring temples of Tikal, the beautiful palaces of Palenque, the sophisticated carved monuments and sculpture, and the complex writing, astronomical, and mathematical systems of this pre-industrial civilization have been widely photographed and written about.  However, revolutionary advances in archaeological research which have provided important new data about the farmers and craftspeople who supported the great Maya rulers, and the decipherment of Maya hieroglyphics writing over the past two decades have led to the overthrow of the traditional model of Lowland Maya civilization and the growth of new understandings of the development of Lowland Maya civilization, the rise of urban states, and the successful adaptation to a difficult and varied tropical environment. \n\nThrough a series of case studies, this seminar will examine the research that has led to these new insights and will evaluate the exciting new models of Maya civilization and its achievements that have emerged in recent years.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "032. (LALS032) The Rise and Fall of Ancient Maya Civilization. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "086", "description": "SM 086. Desire and Demand: Culture and Consumption in the Global Marketplace. (M) Diggs-Thompson. Freshman Seminar. \n\nThe goal of this seminar is to understand and to investigate both historical and contemporary issues related to a culture of consumption.  What cultural and socio-economic factors have led present day patterns of cunsumerism? When, why, how did issues of consumer confidence, and measures of consumer spending become critical and integral to the health of global economies?  What are some of the characteristics of mass and conspicuous consumption in the Americas and abroad?  And, during periods of national and household austerity can and will contemporary patterns of consumption change?  Course readings are interdisciplinary anthropological, historical, soical, economic and political - and require a critical examination of global/local linkages.  Discussions and research assignments incorporate topics such as popular culture, consumer culture, globalization, off-shore production, economics, marketing, consumer finance and the real estate market.  In order to better understand the link between consumption and production factors an overarching question is what is the relationship between outsourcing and/or offshore production and modern consumption? \n\n Group and individual projects will investigate issues pertaining to gender and consumption, class/race/ethnicity and consumption, urban re-gentrification and - after decades of flight to the (mall dominated) suburbs - the continuation of return urban migration to major cities in the United States and throughout the world.  We will use as our laboratory the city of Philadelphia, observing and analyzing the consumer desires of its diverse population.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "086. Desire and Demand: Culture and Consumption in the Global Marketplace. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH654, NELC281, NELC681, SAST161)", "num": "100", "description": "100. (ANTH654, NELC281, NELC681, SAST161) Topics In Anthropology and the Modern World: Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan. (B) Spooner. \n\nThis course relates anthropological models and methods to current problems in the Modern World.  The overall objective is to show how the research findings and analytical concepts of anthropology may be used to illuminate and explain events as they have unfolded in the recent news and in the course of the semester.  Each edition of the course will focus on a particular country or region that has been in the news.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "100. (ANTH654, NELC281, NELC681, SAST161) Topics In Anthropology and the Modern World: Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH692)", "num": "102", "description": "102. (ANTH692) American Civilization: The 20th Century. (C) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Hammarberg. \n\nThis course covers the changing society and culture of the United States during the 20th century.  It begins with American regionalism in 1900 and traces the rise of mass culture and economic depression in the period from WWI through WWII, followed by the changing conflicts of idealism, realism and popular culture to the end of the Cold War, the rise of the internet, and the new problems posed by 21st century globalism.  The course will emphasize the discussion and analysis of primary source materials, employing material culture, texts, and film as forms of evidence. \n\nThe concept of culture enables us to treat the changing cultural context as the \"natural\" environment of Americans during the 20th century.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "102. (ANTH692) American Civilization: The 20th Century. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "104", "description": "104. Sex and Human Nature. (B) Living World Sector. All classes. Valeggia/Fernandez-Duque. \n\nThis is an introduction to the scientific study of sex in humans.  Within an evolutionary framework, the course examines genetic, physiological, ecological, social and behavioral aspects of sex in humans.  After providing the basic principles of evolutionary biology, the course will examine the development of sexual anatomy and physiology.  How is sex determined?  How is orgasm achieved?  Why do girls and boys develop sexually at different ages? The role of ecology and social life in shaping human mating patterns will be evaluated through the use of ethnographies and cross- cultural materials on a variety of human cultures.  Does everybody have sex the way we do?  Why marry? Are there biological bases for love?  Why do we experience jealousy?  Fianlly, topics relevant to human sexuality today will be discussed, such as recreational sex, contraception, and sexually transmitted diseases.  Examples are drawn primarily from traditional and modern human societies; data from studies of nonhuman primates are also considered.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "104. Sex and Human Nature. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "105", "description": "105. Human Adaptation. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 003 or BIOL 101 or permission of instructor. \n\nAn examination of the methods and techniques of physical anthropology as applied to specific problems of biological variation in man.  Emphasis will be upon physical anthropology as a biological science.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "105. Human Adaptation. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "106", "description": "106. Anthropological Genetics. (M) Schurr. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 003. \n\nThis course explores the use of genetics to understand human biological variation and evolution.  Among the areas of genetics to be explored are dermatoglyphics (fingerprints), craniometrics (skulls and teeth), anthropometrics (body dimensions), simple Mendelian traits, molecular genetics, genetics of complex traits (skin color, height, obesity), population genetics, and disease adaptations.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "106. Anthropological Genetics. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "108", "description": "SM 108. In Search of the Neanderthals. (M) Staff. \n\nThis course will outline Neandertal biology, behavior, and current debates over the place of the Neandertals in human evolution.  The main goal of the course is an up-to-date understanding about who the Neandertals were, and how they lived, through the examination of paleontological and archaeological data.  What did they look like?  What did they eat?  What sort of weapons did they make?  What's this I hear about a cave bear cult?  As we do this, we will also explore the history of scientific and popular thought about Neandertals and how it has reflected changes in broader societal attitudes over time.  The course will include in-class, hands-on laboratory activities.  The reading list will range from selected journal articles to excerpts from popular literature like 'Clan of the Cave Bear.'\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "108. In Search of the Neanderthals. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "115", "description": "SM 115. Anthropology and Philosophy. (M) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Sabloff, P. Academically Based Community Service Course. \n\nStudents explore the contributions of anthropology, philosophy, and community service to understanding human nature and human behavior.  Within the context of globalization, we will pose basic philosophical questions about the nature of human nature, capitalism, and the forces influencing people's decisions about their own lives.  Anthropological accounts (ethnographies) from Asia, Latin America, England, and the USA; excerpts from political philosophers (Rousseau, Smith, Marx, Foucault, Bourdieu, and Freire); and students' first-hand experience volunteering in West Philadelphia will help students reach their own conclusions about these and other globalization issues. Students will use their ABCS (Academically-Based Community Service) experience as an anthropology laboratory, seeing social theory as it operates \"on the ground.\"\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "115. Anthropology and Philosophy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC116, ANTH629)", "num": "116", "description": "116. (AFRC116, ANTH629) Caribbean Culture and Politics. (M) Thomas. \n\nThis course offers anthropological perspectives on the Caribbean as a geo-political and socio-cultural region, and on contemporary Caribbean diaspora cultures.  We will examine how the region's long and diverse colonial history has structured relationships between race, ethnicity, class, gender and power, as well as how people have challenged these structures.  As a region in which there have been massive transplantations of peoples and their cultures from Africa, Asia, and Europe, and upon which the United States has exerted considerable influence, we will quesiton the processes by which the meeting and mixing of peoples and cultures has occurred.  Course readings include material on the political economy of slavery and the plantation system, family and community life, religious beliefs and practices, gender roles and ideologies, popular culture, and the differing ways national, ethnic, and racial identities are expressed on the islands and throughout the Caribbean diaspora.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "116. (AFRC116, ANTH629) Caribbean Culture and Politics. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "120", "description": "SM 120. Money in Society and Culture. (M) Staff. Freshman Seminar. \n\nAcross history and across cultures, money has profoundly shaped the social world.  In its myriad forms and functions, money finds expression as object and idea, as complex technological system and potent psychological symbol.  In this course we will consider the meanings that social scientists, cultural critics and popular movements have invested in the objects and practices that surround the use of money in human culture.  Topics to be covered include: ideas about the origins and functions of money; the role of money in ancient and contemporary global trading regimes and political formations; diverse and multiple regimes of exchange and money use in different cultures; the impact of money on notions of value, time, social life, and moral order; ritual, magical and symbolic uses of money; and alternate money forms such as community-based currencies and digital/cyber cash.  While focusing on objects and relationships associated with economic life, the course will serve as an introduction to basic concepts anthropologists use to think about society, culture and politics.  Readings, classroom discussion, and guided research projects will provide the basis for a series of short writing assignments.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "120. Money in Society and Culture. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(NELC103, URBS121)", "num": "121", "description": "121. (NELC103, URBS121) Origin and Cultures of Cities. (A) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Zettler. \n\nThe UN estimates that 2.9 of the world's 6.1 billion people live in cities and that this percentage is rapidly increasing in many parts of the world.  This course examines urban life and urban problems by providing anthropological perspectives on this distinctive form of human association and land use. First we will examine the \"origin\" of cities, focusing on several of the places where cities first developed, including Mesopotamia and the Valley of Mexico.  We will then investigate the internal structure of non-industrial cities by looking at case studies from around the world and from connections between the cities of the past and the city in which we live and work today.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "121. (NELC103, URBS121) Origin and Cultures of Cities. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "122", "description": "122. Becoming Human. (B) Natural Science & Mathematics Sector. Class of 2010 and beyond. Dibble. Also fulfills General Requirement in Society for Class of 2009 and prior. \n\nHuman evolutionary studies is a composite product of the fieldwork of both Paleolithic archaeology and human paleontology (or what we refer to as \"stones and bones\").  This marriage of two subdisciplines of anthropology produces a unique set of data that is intellectually managed and driven by theories within anthropology as a whole and even beyond -- to fields such as biology, psychology, and primate ethology, as we try to understand the origins of language, culture, and our unique physical characteristics.  In this course, two archaeologists and one physical anthropologist will jointly discuss and debate the actual evidence of human evolution, describing what the actual evidence is and exploring how far can we take these interpretations.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "122. Becoming Human. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(COMM110)", "num": "123", "description": "L/R 123. (COMM110) Communication & Culture. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Agha. \n\nThe course looks at varieties of human expression -- such as art, film, language and song -- as communicative practices that connect persons together to form a common culture.  Discussion is centered around particular case studies and ethnographic examples.  Examination of communicative practices in terms of the types of expressive signs they employ, their capacity to formulate and transmit cultural beliefs and ideals (such as conceptions of politics, nature, and self), and to define the size and characteristics of groups and communities sharing such ideals.  Discussion of the role of media, social institutions, and technologies of communication (print, electronic). Emphasis on contemporary communicative practices and the forms of culture that emerge in the modern world.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "123. (COMM110) Communication & Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(JWST124, NELC155, RELS024)", "num": "124", "description": "124. (JWST124, NELC155, RELS024) Archaeology & the Bible. (M) Staff. \n\nThe Hebrew Bible (Tanak) and archaeological research provide distinct, and at times conflicting, accounts of the origins and development of ancient Israel and its neighbors.  Religion, culture and politics ensures that such accounts of the past have significant implications for the world we live in today.  In this course we will discuss the latest archaeological research from Israel, the Palestinian Territories and Jordan as it relates to the Bible, moving from Creation to the Babylonian Exile.  Students will critically engage the best of both biblical and archaeological scholarship, while being exposed to the interpretive traditions of Anthropology as an alternative approach to the available evidence.  Open discussions of the religious, social and political implications of the material covered will be an important aspect of the course.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "124. (JWST124, NELC155, RELS024) Archaeology & the Bible. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(LALS133)", "num": "133", "description": "SM 133. (LALS133) Native Peoples and the Environment. (M) Erickson. Freshman Seminar. \n\nThe relationship between the activities of native peoples and the environment is a complex and contentious issue.  One perspective argues that native peoples had little impact on the environments because of their low population densities, limited technology, and conservation ethic and worldview.  At other extreme, biodiversity, and Nature itself, is considered the product of a long history of human activities.  This seminar will examine the Myth of the Ecologically Noble Savage, the Myth of the Pristine Environment, the alliance between native peoples and Green Politics, and the contribution of native peoples to appropriate technology, sustainable development and conservation of biodiversity.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "133. (LALS133) Native Peoples and the Environment. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "136", "description": "136. Culture and Conflict in International Relations. (M) Spooner. \n\nSelected international conflicts will be analyzed from a cultural point of view.  This exercise will have the following advantages, each of which will be emphasized throughout the course: (a) students will study a series of internationally important situations from a distinctive academic point of view; (b) they will explore the analytical value of the concept of culture with the rigour with which it has been developed in anthropology, but in application to material not commonly treated by anthropologists, and (c) since anthropologists have difficulty comprehending and analyzing conflict within a cultural framework, they will at the same time be engaging in a theoretically experimental exercise by addressing questions concerning the relationship between conflict and cultural process.  The course should be useful both to prospective anthropology majors and all undergraduates interested in the modern world, and will ideally attract students with a wide variety of interests.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "136. Culture and Conflict in International Relations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(NELC182, URBS139)", "num": "139", "description": "139. (NELC182, URBS139) Ancient Civilizations of the World. (M) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Zettler. \n\nThe archaeology of the complex societies of the Old and New Worlds from the end of the paleolithic up to and including the earliest civilizations.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "139. (NELC182, URBS139) Ancient Civilizations of the World. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "143", "description": "143. Being Human: Biology, Culture & Human Diversity. (C) Valeggia. \n\nThis course is an exploration of human biology from an evolutionary and biocultural perspective.  Under this light, the class will provide you with general concepts for a better understanding of what it means to be human.  We will see humas as mammals, as primates, and as hominids.  We will explore the basics of human genetics, growth & development, nutrition, disease and life history.  Biological variation in contemporary and past societies will be reviewed in reference to evolutionary processes.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "143. Being Human: Biology, Culture & Human Diversity. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC146, GSOC146, URBS146)", "num": "146", "description": "SM 146. (AFRC146, GSOC146, URBS146) Writing Multiculturalism. (M) Sanday. \n\nDiversity is a fact of life, characteristic not only of the US national culture but of the global culture as well.  This course introduces anthropological theories of culture and multiculturalism and the method of ethnography.  Students will read and report on selected classic readings. After learning the basic concepts, students will be introduced to the concept of culture and the method of ethnography.  The core of the course will revolve around \"doing ethnography\" through participant/observation in multicultural settings.  Students can use their life experience, home communities, or Penn as their field of observation.  The goal of the course is to introduce beginning students to public interest anthropology.  No background in anthropology is required.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "146. (AFRC146, GSOC146, URBS146) Writing Multiculturalism. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "152", "description": "SM 152. Fat and Society. (C) Kauer. \n\nThis course is designed to approach a topic of great interest and relevance to people-both men and women--living in the US today.The readings and concepts of fat: physiology, anatomy, body image, body, weight, macronutrient, \"fatty\" foods, ideas about low fat and non-fat, and the morality of fat and thin. Using critical thinking skills from anthropology, students and instructor will explore meanings of fat: their origin, their effects on individuals, and on society.  In particular, we will examine ideas taken for granted by society (especially the biomedical culture, as it extends into the community) about the relations between food, fatness, happiness, health and morality.  Course material draws broadly from the social sciences and humanities and deals with the biological, biomedical, and socio- cultural aspects of fat in our culture. In saying \"fat\", we are also implicitly saying \"thin\", and this course is designed to delve into the varied discourse on fat/thin, on body/body image, health, and beauty.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "152. Fat and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "168", "description": "SM 168. Genetics and the Modern World. (M) Schurr. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 003; some background in biology and genetics is also helpful, but not required. \n\nWithout question, genetic research is making a profound impact on the modern world.  It has led to many new and exciting insights in the field of biological anthropology, particularly those subareas concerned with human origins and biological diversity, and is having an equally important influence on the biomedical sciences.  Furthermore, through the use of new genetic technologies, the entire human genome has been recently sequenced, giving us an opportunity to better understand the nature of human development, disease and biological variation at the molecular level.  This course will explore the new findings in biological anthropology resulting from the use of these genetic methods, as well as examine the social and political implications of these advances.  Among the topics to be covered in the course are the Human Genome Project, genetic testing in forensic and criminal cases, race and biological variation, genetic engineering, the genetic basis of disease, and modern human origins.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "168. Genetics and the Modern World. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "184", "description": "SM 184. Food and Culture. (M) Kauer, J. \n\nIn this seminar we will explore the various relationships between food and culture.  Readings will draw from a range of fields aside from anthropology, including psychology, food studies, history, nutrition, and sociology.  We will read about and discuss cross-cultural variation in food habits, the meanings underlying eating and food in the United States, and the different ways that individuals construct 'self' and identity through food and eating. Discussion in class will rely on in-depth reading, analysis, and discussion of the assigned texts.  There will be a few short writing assignments throughout the class.  In addition, students will conduct interviews and then write a paper based on both these and research in the published literature.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "184. Food and Culture. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(AFRC190, AFST190, HIST190)", "num": "190", "description": "190. (AFRC190, AFST190, HIST190) Introduction to Africa. (A) Society Sector. All classes. Barnes. \n\nDuring the semester we will focus on people and communities of sub-Saharan Africa and on the ways people represent, reflect on, and react to various aspects and issues in their lives and the institutions which dominate their communities. \n\nWe will focus particularly on the history, contemporary expression, and inter-relationships among politics, religion, and aesthetic practice.  Members of Penn's African Studies community will share their expertise with the class and introduce the University's Africa resources. Texts consist of weekly readings, films, and recordings; and class members will be expected to attend several lectures outside of class.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "190. (AFRC190, AFST190, HIST190) Introduction to Africa. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "199", "description": "199. Independent Study in Anthropology. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Junior or senior standing and written permission of instructor and undergraduate chairman. See Department for Advisor. \n\nA study under faculty supervision of a problem area or topic not included in the formal curriculum.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "199. Independent Study in Anthropology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "210", "description": "210. Death: Anthropological Perspectives. (M) Monge. \n\nThis course will cover the topic of DEATH from a bio/cultural perspective including the evolution of life history (aging and demography - mortality) as well as from an archaeological perspective (prehistory) and early history of mortuary practices.  Nothing in the lifespan of humans is so revealing on the interface of culture and biology as is death and the experience of death. This course is not concerned specifically with how an individual experiences death, but in the ways that culture and biology have come to define and deal with physical death and the death experience.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "210. Death: Anthropological Perspectives. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "211", "description": "211. North American Archaeology. (M) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Preucel. \n\nThis course provides a basic survey of the archaeology of indigenous peoples of North America from the earliest inhabitants until the arrival of Europeans. The regional coverage includes the continental U.S., northern Mexico, Canada, and the Arctic.  Because of time limitations, specific emphasis will be placed on the Midwest, Southwest and Southeast regions of the U.S.  Topics include the history of North American archaeology, peopling of the continent, origins and evolution of agriculture, early village life, native architecture, prehistoric art and symbolism, native american cosmology and astronomy, ancient technology, outside contacts and relationships, prehistoric economies and trade, social and political structure, the rise of cultural complexity, and early contacts with Europeans.  The focus will be on the archaeological record combined with analogy from ethnohistory and ethnography.  This regional survey course is designed for mid-level undergraduates.  There are no formal prerequisites for the course, although it is expected that students have taken ANTH 001.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "211. North American Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH719)", "num": "219", "description": "SM 219. (ANTH719) Archaeology Field Project. (A) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Schuyler. Permission of instructor required. \n\nFirst-hand participation in research project in historical archaeology in Southern New Jersey.  Transportation provided by the university.  Students will assist in excavations and archival research on local archaeological sites.  Class is open to all undergraduates, no previous archaeological experience is required.  Attendance will involve Fridays or Saturdays, all day from 8:00 to 5:00 including travel time to the excavations and back to the University Museum.  Students enroll for only one day (F or S).  Enrollment is limited so specific permission of the instructor is required (Robert L. Schuyler: schuyler@sas.upenn.edu; (215)898-6965; U Museum 412).  Course may be repeated for credit and a follow up laboratory course (Anth 220 in the spring semester) will also be available during which the artifacts and documentary sources collected in the fall will be analyzed at the University Museum. Course may be repeated for credit.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "219. (ANTH719) Archaeology Field Project. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH720)", "num": "220", "description": "220. (ANTH720) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project. (B) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Schuyler. \n\nFollow-up for Anthropology 219.  Students may enroll in either or both courses, and in any sequence; however, preference will be given to those previously enrolled in 219 that Fall.  Class will meet in three hour sections on Fridays and Saturdays and will involve the analysis of artifacts, documentary records, oral historic sources and period illustrations collected on Southern New Jersey historic sites that Fall.  No previous archaeological or lab experience is required. (Robert L.  Schuyler: schuyler@sas.upenn.edu; (215) 898-6965; UMuseum 412).  Course may be repeated for credit.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "220. (ANTH720) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "229", "description": "229. Underwater Archaeology. (M) Staff. \n\nArchaeological finds are made underwater as well as on land.  These underwater finds may offer vivid and unusually complete information on ancient trade patterns and politics, technology, and environments.  This course will cover research on shipwrecks and on settlements and landscapes that have been preserved underwater.  Attention will be paid to the special challenges and methods of underwater research and to understanding undersea finds in their local archaeological context.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "229. Underwater Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH633)", "num": "230", "description": "230. (ANTH633) Forensic Anthropology. (M) Monge. \n\nThis course will investigate and discuss the various techniques of analysis that biological anthropologists can apply to forensic cases.  Topics include human osteology, the recovery of bodies, the analysis of life history, the reconstruction of causes of death, and various case studies where anthropologists have contributed significantly to solving forensic cases. Discussions will include the limitations of forensic anthropology and the appplication of DNA recovery to skeletal/mummified materials.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "230. (ANTH633) Forensic Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE231)", "num": "231", "description": "231. (CINE231) Anthropology and the Cinema. (C) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Krasniewicz. \n\nThis course analyzes mass-market American films using traditional anthropological theories about symbolism, ritual, mythology, language, methaphor, narrative and discourse.  The goal is to think of the movies as significant cultural artifacts that we use to make sense of the world rather than as just forms of entertainment or art.  Through a study of popular American films and their related merchandise and cultural influences, we will also see how anthropology can be used to study contemporary cultures.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "231. (CINE231) Anthropology and the Cinema. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH636, NELC241, NELC641, URBS236)", "num": "236", "description": "236. (ANTH636, NELC241, NELC641, URBS236) Iraq: Ancient Cities & Empires. (M) Zettler. \n\nThis course surveys the cultural traditions of ancient Mesopotamia, the land between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, a region commonly dubbed \"cradle of civilization\" or \"heartland of cities,\" from an archaeological perspective. It will investigate the emergence of sedentism and agriculture; early villages and increasingly complex Neolithic and Chalcolithic cultures; the evolution of urban, literate societies in the late 4th millennium; the city-states and incipient supra-regional polities of the third and second millennium; the gradual emergence of the Assyrian and Babylonian \"world empires,\" well-known from historical books of the Bible, in the first millennium; and the cultural mix of Mesopotamia under the successive domination of Greeks, Persians and Arabs.  The course seeks to foster an appreciation of the rich cultural heritage of ancient Mesopotamia, an understanding of cultural continuities in the Middle East and a sense of the ancient Near Eastern underpinnings of western civilization.  No Prerequisite.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "236. (ANTH636, NELC241, NELC641, URBS236) Iraq: Ancient Cities & Empires. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HSOC238)", "num": "238", "description": "L/R 238. (HSOC238) Introduction to Medical Anthropology. (C) Barg. \n\nIntroduction to medical anthropology takes central concepts in anthropology -- culture, adaptation, human variation, belief, political economy, the body -- and applies them to human health and illness.  Students explore key elements of healing systems including healing technologies and healer-patient relationships.  Modern day applications for medical anthropology are stressed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "238. (HSOC238) Introduction to Medical Anthropology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "(ANTH501, SARS239, SARS513)", "num": "239", "description": "SM 239. (ANTH501, SARS239, SARS513) Medieval Archaeology of South Asia. (E) Staff. \n\nWe will examine the major theoretical, historical and methodological problems of the archaeology of Medieval South Asia.  Problems to be addressed include: What are the defining characteristics of medieval economy, society and culture?  What material is available for study?  Here we will review the archaeological record of the period and will explore the research problems that can be addressed using this material.  We will also examine techniques for documenting objects and sites.  Finally, we will consider some of the special problems of site preservation and use that affect South Asian sites. Each student will be expected to contribute actively to the class discussions, to prepare an annotated bibliography on some aspect of the course materials, to write several brief (1-2 pages) position papers assigned by the instructor, to research and write a term paper on a topic chosen in consultation with the instructor, and to present this paper in class and lead a brief discussion of its thesis.  There will be no exams.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "239. (ANTH501, SARS239, SARS513) Medieval Archaeology of South Asia. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "242", "description": "242. World Ethnography. (C) Sanday. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 002. \n\nThe aim of this course is to provide an overview of the varieties of human experience in the world culture areas identified by anthropologists.  The course will concentrate on regional cultural themes and social organizational processes in each of these areas.  Students will read a sample of the classic ethnographies and articles that cover central anthropological topics.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "242. World Ethnography. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH649)", "num": "246", "description": "SM 246. (ANTH649) Molecular Anthropology. (C) Schurr. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 003, Intro to Human Evolution; some background in biology and genetics will also be useful. \n\nIn this course, we will explore the molecular revolution in biological anthropology, and, in particular, examine the nature and theory of collecting molecular data to address anthropological questions concerning human origins, evolution and biological variation.  Some of the topics to be covered in this course are the phylogenetic relationships among primates, kinship in apes and monkeys, the hominoid trichotomy, modern human origins and migrations, Neandertal genetics, biogenetics of skin color, disease adaptations, and the Human Genome Project.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "246. (ANTH649) Molecular Anthropology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "(ANTH747)", "num": "247", "description": "247. (ANTH747) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project-Summer. (L) Schuyler. \n\nThis course is a summer version of Anth 220 (see that course for full description).  In summer more emphasis will be placed on field visitations. Course open to all students; no instructor permission needed.  Course may be repeated for credit and students may take both anth 247 and 220.  Questions: contact Robert L Schuyler; schuyler@sas.upen.edu; (215) 898-6965; Univ Museum 412/6398.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "247. (ANTH747) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project-Summer. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "248", "description": "248. Food and Feasting: Archaeology of the Table. (C) Moore. \n\nFood satisfies human needs on many levels.  Anth 248 explores the importance of food in human experience, starting with the nutritional and ecological aspects of food choice and going on to focus on to the social and ritual significance of foods and feasts.  Particular attention will be paid to the way that archaeologists and biological anthropologists find out about food use in the past.  Contemporary observations about the central significance of eating as a social activity will be linked to the development of cuisines, economies, and civilizations in ancient times.  The course will use lectures, discussions, films, food tastings, and fieldwork to explore the course themes. An optional community service component will be outlined the first week of class.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "248. Food and Feasting: Archaeology of the Table. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(LTAM254)", "num": "254", "description": "SM 254. (LTAM254) Archaeology of the Inca. (M) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Erickson. \n\nThe Inca created a vast and powerful South American empire in the high Andes Mountains that was finally conquered by Spain.  Using Penn's impressive Museum collections and other archaeological, linguistic, and historical sources, this course will examine Inca religion and worldview, architecture, sacred temples, the capital of Cuzco, ritual calendar, ceque system, textiles, metalworking, economic policies and expansionist politics from the dual perspectives of Inca rulers and their subjects.  Our task is to explain the rise, dominance, and fall of the Incas as a major South American civilization.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "254. (LTAM254) Archaeology of the Inca. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CIS 106, LALS268)", "num": "258", "description": "258. (CIS 106, LALS268) Visualizing the Past/Peopling the Present. (M) Badler/Erickson. \n\nMost people's information about the Past is drawn from coffee table picture books, popular movies, video games, documetaries about discoveries of \"ancient, mysterious, and lost\" civilations, and tours often led by guides of limited or even dubious credentials.  How are these ideas presented, formed, and circulated?  Who creates and selects the information presented in this diverse media?  Are these presentations accurate?  Do they promote or hurt scientific explanations?  Can the artisitic, aesthetic, and scientific realms be bridged to effectively promote the past?  This class will focus on case studies and critiques of how archaeology and the past are created, presented and used in movies, museums, games, the internet, and art. \n\n In addition to exploring general concepts of archaeology and the media, students will work in teams to produce an interactive, digital media exhibit using the latest modeling and augmented reality programs for the new archaeological museum at the UNESCO World Heritage stie of Tiwanaku, Bolivia. Although nearly abandoned for a millennium and sacked by treasure hunters, the ruins are considered one of the most important archaeological sites in South America and visited by 45,000 tourists a year.  Potential class projects include fly throughs of architectural renderings, simulations of the design and engineering the pyramids, temkples, and palaces, modeling of human behavior within architectural settings, and study artifacts in the Penn Museum.  The results will be displayed in the Tiwanaku Museum and will serve to introduce visitors to the site.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "258. (CIS 106, LALS268) Visualizing the Past/Peopling the Present. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "262", "description": "262. Social Reorganization: Tribes, Communities and Corporations. (M) Spooner. \n\nAll human life is organized, unconsciously and culturally, at least (informal organization); in some cases also purposively, or ideologically, for specific objectives (formal organization), either general, as in modern government, or limited, as in business.  This course will interrelate anthropological work on social organization with the history of formal organization in a way that will bring anthropologists into dialogue with a variety of sociological interests in organizational forms.  A wide variety of ethnographic and sociological examples of formal and informal organization will be described and analyzed within the framework of the emerging modern awareness of the possibility of organizing and reorganizing society and social groups for specific short- and longterm objectives.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "262. Social Reorganization: Tribes, Communities and Corporations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HSOC239)", "num": "273", "description": "SM 273. (HSOC239) Globalization & Health. (M) Petryna. \n\nIn some parts of the world spending on pharmaceuticals is astronomical.  In others, people struggle for survival amid new and reemerging epidemics and have little of no access to basic or life-saving therapies.  Treatments for infectious diseases that disproportionately affect the world's poor, remain under-researched and global health disparities are increasing.  This interdisciplinary seminar integrates perspectives from the social sciences and the biomedical sciences to explore 1) the development and global flows of medical technologies; 2) how the health of individuals and groups is affected by medical technologies, public policy, and the forces of globalization as each of these impacts local worlds. \n\n The seminar is structured to allow us to examine specific case material from around the world (Haiti, South Africa, Brazil, Russia, China, India, for example), and to address the ways in which social, political-economic, and technological factors -- which are increasingly global in nature -- influence basic biological mechanisms and disease outcomes and distribution.  As we analyze each case and gain familiarity with ethnographic methods, we will ask how more effective interventions can be formulated.  The course draws from historical and ethnographic accounts, medical journals, ethical analyses, and films, and familiarizes students with critical debates on globalization and with local responses to globalizing processes.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "273. (HSOC239) Globalization & Health. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "280", "description": "280. Language and Culture. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 002 or permission of instructor. \n\nExamination of language as a part of culture, as a source of knowledge about other aspects of culture, and as social behavior.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "280. Language and Culture. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ENGL282)", "num": "282", "description": "SM 282. (ENGL282) Native American Media. (M) \n\nAn intensive study of how Native American cultures have been represented and how they represent themselves in a wide range of media including: ethnographic films, Hollywood films, literature, photography, video, digital archives, and on the world wide web.  We live in a historical moment witnessing an extraordinary shift in the role that indigenous people play in curating, preserving, and creatively revising perceptions of their own cultures.  With the advent of the digital age, new opportunities for depicting both traditional and contemporary forms of culture open up before us in ways that are at once exhilarating and reason for concern.  Intellectual creativity is warmly welcomed.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "282. (ENGL282) Native American Media. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "300", "description": "300. Senior Thesis. (A) Staff. Permit required. \n\nIndividual research under faculty supervision culminating in a thesis.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "300. Senior Thesis. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "301", "description": "301. Senior Thesis. (B) Jackson. Permit required. \n\nIndividual research under faculty supervision culminating in a thesis.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "301. Senior Thesis. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH609, URBS409)", "num": "305", "description": "SM 305. (ANTH609, URBS409) Anthropology & Policy: History, Theory, Practice. (B) Sabloff, P. \n\nFrom the inception of the discipline, anthropologists have applied their ethnographic and theoretical knowledge to policy issues concerning the alleviation of practical human problems.  This approach has not only benefited peoples in need but it has also enriched the discipline, providing anthropologists with the opportunity to develop new theories and methodologies from a problem-centered approach.  The class will examine the connection between anthropology and policy, theory and practice (or 'praxis'), research and application.  We will study these connections by reading about historical and current projects.  As an ABCS course, students will also volunteer in a volunteer organization of their choice in the Philadelphia area, conduct anthropological research on the organization, and suggest ways that the anthropological approach might support the efforts of the organization.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "305. (ANTH609, URBS409) Anthropology & Policy: History, Theory, Practice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HSOC310)", "num": "310", "description": "SM 310. (HSOC310) Anthropology and Biomedical Science. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 243 or permission of instructor. Priority given to Penn Med students. \n\nAn examination of the role of anthropology in biomedical research, focusing upon health and disease as outcomes of biocultural systems.  Where possible, students will engage in collection and analysis of data and the dissemination of the results.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "310. (HSOC310) Anthropology and Biomedical Science. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(HSOC321, URBS312)", "num": "312", "description": "SM 312. (HSOC321, URBS312) Health in Urban Communities. (A) Johnston. \n\nThis course will introduce students to anthropological approaches to health and to theories of participatory action research.  This combined theoretical perspective will then be put into practice using West Philadelphia community schools as a case study.  Students will become involved in design and implementation of health-related projects at an urban elementary or middle school.  As one of the course requirements, students will be expected to produce a detailed research proposal for future implementation.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "312. (HSOC321, URBS312) Health in Urban Communities. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HSOC359)", "num": "359", "description": "359. (HSOC359) Nutritional Anthropology. (M) Johnston. \n\nHuman nutrition and nutritional status within context of anthropology, health, and disease.  Particular emphasis on nutritional problems and the development of strategies to describe, analyze, and solve them.  Students will participate in the Urban Nutrition Initiative, an academically based community service project in local area schools.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "359. (HSOC359) Nutritional Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "404", "description": "404. Introduction to the Human Skeleton. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 003 or ANTH 105. \n\nAn introduction to the anatomy and biology of the human skeleton.  Laboratory work will be supplemental by lectures and demonstrations on the development structure, function, and evolution of the human skeleton.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "404. Introduction to the Human Skeleton. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(GSOC511)", "num": "411", "description": "SM 411. (GSOC511) Anthropology of Sex and Gender. (M) Sanday. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 002. \n\nThis course surveys psychoanalytic and social theories of sex and gender.  We begin with the social organization and construction of sexual expression and engendered subjectivity.  The social ordering of power through the mechanisms of sexual behavior and engendered subjectivity is considered next.  In addition to reading anthropological analyses of sex and gender in specific ethnographic contexts, students will become familiar with relevant theorists such as Belsey, Strathern, de Lauretis, Foucault, Freud and Lacan.  Short papers will be assigned in which students apply specific theories to interpret case material.  Advanced undergraduates and graduate students are welcome.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "411. (GSOC511) Anthropology of Sex and Gender. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "413", "description": "413. Archaeology of American Southwest. (M) Preucel. \n\nThis course provides an overview of the prehistoric cultures of the American Southwest.  It interweaves archaeological data, ethnohistorical accounts, ethnographic descriptions, and indigenous perspectives.  Topics covered include the history of archaeological research, origins and migrations, agriculture and land use, ideology and belief systems. \n\nSpecial attention will be given to Chaco and Hohokam as contrasting case studies of regional ideological systems with strong connections to indigenous people today.  In addition, the course addresses such historical and contemporary questions as colonization, resistance, tourism, and repatriation.  Relevant ethnographic and archaeological videos will be shown and the Southwestern collections of the University Museum will be used.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "413. Archaeology of American Southwest. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "415", "description": "L/L 415. Archaeology of Animals. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 001 or permission from instructor. \n\nThis course introduces the study of animal bones from archaeological sites. Faunal analysis is an interdisciplinary science which draws methods from archaeology, biology, and paleontology.  Bones, shells, and other remains yield evidence for the use of animals by humans, and evidence for the biology of animals and for past environments.  The course will focus on research approaches to important transitions in human-animal relationships: the development of human hunting and fishing, animal domestication, early pastoralism, and the emergence of market economies in animal products.  Class presentations will include lectures and discussion concerning research design and archaeological case material, with additional videos, slidework with field and laboratory equipment, and supervised work identifying and darchaeological materials from Museum collections.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "415. Archaeology of Animals. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(COMM420)", "num": "416", "description": "SM 416. (COMM420) Race: Hist, Theory & Practice. (C) Jackson. \n\nThis class investigates the history of race as a socially meaningful category come from?  Why/how did it develop? \n\nWhat are its various historical and contempomanifestations?  In which ways might it be inextricably linked to other forms ofdifferentiation (such as class, gender, religion, ethnicity, and sexuality)?  RaTheory and Practice asks students to think critically about their own politicaland emotional investments in race as a social/biological fact.  We will examine from various fields (in the humanities, the natural sciences and the social scithe realities of racial thinking, highlighting the kinds of theories scholars uraces continued relevance (or irrelevance) and specifically scrutinizing some which Media Studies integrates race-based analyses into its research.  Race is acomplicated construct (considering how much we all think we understand it), onedemands careful attention to culture and biology, mythology and history, sciencsuperstition.  This course seeks to unpack the power of race through an interdisself-reflexive engagement with it, using a philosophy of knowledge approach t construction and reproduction as a political and analytical category.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "416. (COMM420) Race: Hist, Theory & Practice. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "422", "description": "422. Computer Applications in Anthropology. (M) Dibble. May be repeated for credit. \n\nPresentation of computer applications relevant to anthropological field work and analysis, primarily based on micro or portable computers.  Focus each year will vary depending on development of new applications and the interests of students.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "422. Computer Applications in Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(LALS433)", "num": "433", "description": "433. (LALS433) Andean Archaeology. (M) Erickson. \n\nConsideration of culture history of native peoples of Andean area, with emphasis on pre-conquest archaeology of Central Andean region.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "433. (LALS433) Andean Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(GAFL474, HSOC437)", "num": "437", "description": "SM 437. (GAFL474, HSOC437) Cultural Models & Health. (C) Barg. \n\nThere is a great deal of variation among population groups in the incidence of and mortality from most major diseases. \n\nBiological and social factors can account for some of this variation.  However, there is increasing evidence that behavior- and the cultural models that are linked to health behavior- play an important role, too.  Cognitive anthropology is the study of how peoplein social groups conceive of objects and events in their world.  It provides a framework for understanding how members of different groups categorize illness and treatment.  It also helps to explain why risk perception, helpseeking behavior, and decision making styles vary to the extent they do.  This seminar will explore the history of cognitive anthropology, schema theory, connectionism, the role of cultural models, and factors affecting health decision making.  Methods for identifying cultural models will be discussed and practiced. \n\nImplications for health communication will be discussed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "437. (GAFL474, HSOC437) Cultural Models & Health. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HSOC441)", "num": "441", "description": "SM 441. (HSOC441) Cross Cultural Approaches to Health and Illness. (M) Barg. \n\nThis course will explore the ways that health and illness-related beliefs and behaviors develop within communities.  We will identify the forces that shape these beliefs and behaviors and ultimately affect who gets sick, who gets well, and the very nature of the illness experience.  Emphasis will be given to the relationships among sociocultural, political and biological factors and the ways that these factors interact to produce the variation that we see in health and illness related attitudes, behaviors and outcomes across cultures.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "441. (HSOC441) Cross Cultural Approaches to Health and Illness. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "445", "description": "445. Old World Paleolithic. (M) Dibble. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 001. \n\nSurvey of European Paleolithic archaeology including survey of evidence relative to changing habitat, the human fossil finds, the technology, the subsistence activities, and of the social and cultural inferences that have been drawn.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "445. Old World Paleolithic. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH751)", "num": "451", "description": "SM 451. (ANTH751) Historical Archaeology. (M) Schuyler. \n\nArchaeology of the Modern World from the Columbian voyage (1492) to the 20th century.  Topics such as the rise of early modern Europe, European exploration and colonization, African American Archaeology, Asian American Archaeology, the rise of colonial society, contact with native peoples, the Industrial Revolution, and the archaeology of the 20th century will be covered.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "451. (ANTH751) Historical Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "454", "description": "454. Quantitative Analysis of Anthropological Data. (C) Dibble. \n\nProblem-oriented approach to application of quantitative methods in anthropological research.  Emphasis on formulation of specific problems using real data sets by each student in his or her area of interest.  The logic of problem solving using quantitative arguments, the investigation of data reliability and representativeness, and the use of statistical arguments in the presentation of results covered in detail.  Use of digital computers as research tools will be an integral part of the presentation.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "454. Quantitative Analysis of Anthropological Data. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "455", "description": "455. Lithic Analysis. (M) Dibble. \n\nSurvey of method and theory of lithic analysis, including experimentation, typology, technology, and microwear, focussing on the behavioral implications of lithic assemblage variability.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "455. Lithic Analysis. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(LALS468)", "num": "468", "description": "468. (LALS468) The Ancient Maya. (M) Sharer. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 001. \n\nExamination of current understanding of Ancient Maya, emphasizing critical review of recent archaeological research and theories.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "468. (LALS468) The Ancient Maya. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AAMW477, HSPV577)", "num": "477", "description": "SM 477. (AAMW477, HSPV577) Molecular Archaeology. (M) McGovern. \n\nSeminar on a rapidly developing, interdisciplinary field.  Application of inorganic and organic chemical techniques for dating and characterizing ancient material remains, and assessing their technological and cultural significance.  Middle- range theory--the methodology and limitations of integrating natural scientific data with archaeological hypothesis and reconstruction--is stressed.  Topics include geophysical/chemical prospecting of sites, radiocarbon dating and calibration, ceramic provenancing and trade, organic contents analysis of vessels, isotopic dietary studies, and paleogenetics.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "477. (AAMW477, HSPV577) Molecular Archaeology. (M)"}, null, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFST227, AFST503, ANTH227)", "num": "504", "description": "SM 504. (AFST227, AFST503, ANTH227) Prehistory of North America. (M) Staff. \n\nThis course provides a basic survey of the archaeology of indigenous peoples of North America from the earliest inhabitants until the arrival of Europeans. The regional coverage includes the continental U.S., northern Mexico, Canada, and the Arctic.  Because of time limitations, specific emphasis will be placed on the Midwest, Southwest and Southeast regions of the U.S.  Topics include the history of North American archaeology, peopling of the continent, origins and evolution of agriculture, early village life, native architecture, prehistoric art and symbolism, native american cosmology and astronomy, ancient technology, outside contacts and relationships, prehistoric economies and trade, social and political structure, the rise of cultural complexity, and early contacts with Europeans.  The focus will be on the archaeological record combined with analogy from ethnohistory and ethnography.  This regional survey course is designed for mid-level and upper-level undergraduates and graduate students.  There are no formal prerequisites for the course, although it is expected that students have taken Anthr 001 or its equivalent.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "504. (AFST227, AFST503, ANTH227) Prehistory of North America. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(FOLK502, GSOC502)", "num": "506", "description": "SM 506. (FOLK502, GSOC502) Fieldwork Theory. (C) Hufford, M. \n\nThis graduate seminar explores the theory and practice of folkloristic ethnography, with a focus on sites in West Philadelphia.  Through reading and exercises in ethnographic obsevation and writing, students consider the nature of the enthnographic encounter, its social functions and civic possibilities, and the writings, archives, films, recordings and community events that form its outcomes.  Historical and contemporary reading provide an overview of ethnography as it has emerged in the social sciences over the past century, while attention to the techniques and technologies in fieldnotes, sound and video recording, photography, archiving, and sensing will develop students' skills as ethnographic scholars, writers, and community activists. Undergraduates may enroll with permission.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "506. (FOLK502, GSOC502) Fieldwork Theory. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH170)", "num": "507", "description": "SM 507. (ANTH170) Primate Behavior and Ecology. (M) Fernandez-Duque. \n\nThis is a seminar that discusses methodological aspects of conducting field research on non-human primates.  After discussions of issues related to the planning and design of field studies, and the proper training in necessary field techniques, students will conduct research on non-human primates.  We will then discuss data management and analysis.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "507. (ANTH170) Primate Behavior and Ecology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH126)", "num": "509", "description": "SM 509. (ANTH126) Who Were the Phoenicians?. (M) Hafford. \n\nSkilled sailors and merchants or heartless baby killers?  Both have been claimed in the ancient accounts for this mysterious people living along the levantine coast.  The Phoenicians were a literate culture and they spread the use of the alphabet far and wide, but little of what they wrote survives. Thus, the story passed down to us comes almost entirely from their enemies and rivals.  In this course we attempt to understand the Phoenicians by analyzing their achaeological remains in concert with contemporary and later textual accounts.  We will delve into Phoenician cities, shipwrecks, artifacts and inscriptions looking at the culture from its humble early beginnings through to its intense colonization of the Mediterranean that was eventually stamped out by the Romans.  We will thus analyze Canaanite, Phoenician and Punic life through their crafts, their architecture, their business and their politics.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "509. (ANTH126) Who Were the Phoenicians?. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "512", "description": "SM 512. Experimental Lithic Technology. (M) Dibble. \n\nStone tools provide the most significant source of information about past human behavior and evolution over the past 2.5 million years.  But because stone technology has been largely abandones, archaeologists often rely on experiments to help them determine how such tools were made and used.  This course will review the kinds of experiments most often used (both actualistic and replicative), but will focus on understanding the mechanics of stone flaking through controlled experiments.  As part of their study, students will take part in both designing and implementing a series of experiments involving mechanical flaking of molded glass cores, and will apply the results of this research to archaeological specimens.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "512. Experimental Lithic Technology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFST516, GSOC516, URBS516)", "num": "516", "description": "SM 516. (AFST516, GSOC516, URBS516) Public Interest Workshop. (M) Sanday. \n\nThis is an interdisciplinary workshop sponsored by Peggy Reeves Sanday (Dept of Anthropology) with guest speakers from Communication Studies and other fields.  Open to graduate and advanced undergraduate students, the workshop is a response to Amy Gutmann's call for interdisciplinary cooperation across the University and to the Dept. of Anthropology's commitment to developing public interest research and practice as a disciplinary theme.  The workshop will be run as an open interdisciplinary forum on framing a public interest social science that ties theory and action. \n\nStudents are encouraged to apply the framing model to a public interest research and action topic of their choice. Examples of public interest topics to be discussed in class and through outside speakers include the meaning of \"public interest,\" the ways in which the public interest is/is not addressed in the academy, and the relationship of studying the public interest to social justice.  This is an academically-based-community-service (ABCS) course.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "516. (AFST516, GSOC516, URBS516) Public Interest Workshop. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "526", "description": "SM 526. Data Analysis and Presentation in Biological Anthropology. (M) Valeggia.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "526. Data Analysis and Presentation in Biological Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(EDUC547, FOLK527, URBS547)", "num": "547", "description": "547. (EDUC547, FOLK527, URBS547) Anthropology & Education. (C) Hall. \n\nAn introduction to the intent, approach, and contribution of anthropology to the study of socialization and schooling in cross-cultural perspective. Education is examined in traditional, colonial, and complex industrial societies.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "547. (EDUC547, FOLK527, URBS547) Anthropology & Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AAMW556)", "num": "556", "description": "SM 556. (AAMW556) Practicum in Archaeological Field Methods and Problems. (M) Dibble. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 241 or 600 and one archaeology area course or permission of instructor. \n\nSeminar analyzing process of archaeological excavation as a problem of research design and method, stressing excavation as an integrated methodological system of research dealing with data retrieval, storage processing, integration and interpretation leading to final publication.  Course intended for students proposing archaeological careers; it will be assumed participants have some practical excavation experience.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "556. (AAMW556) Practicum in Archaeological Field Methods and Problems. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AAMW557, LALS557)", "num": "557", "description": "SM 557. (AAMW557, LALS557) Seminar in Archaeological Theory and Method: Archaeology of Landscapes. (M) Erickson. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 241 or 600 and one archaeology area course or permission of instructor. \n\nAdvanced seminar for potential professional archaeologists.  Course will examine critically main past and present theoretical issues in archaeological research and interpretation, and consider various methodologies utilized toward these interpretative ends.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "557. (AAMW557, LALS557) Seminar in Archaeological Theory and Method: Archaeology of Landscapes. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(AFRC587, LALS588)", "num": "587", "description": "SM 587. (AFRC587, LALS588) Race, Nation, Empire. (B) Thomas. \n\nThis graduate seminar examines the dynamic relationships among empires, nations and states; colonial and post- colonial policies; and anti-colonial strategies within a changing global context.  Using the rubrics of anthropology, history, cultural studies, and social theory, we will explore the intimacies of subject formation within imperial contexts- past and present- especially in relation to ideas about race and belonging.  We will focus on how belonging and participation have been defined in particular locales, as well as how these notions have been socialized through a variety of institutional contexts.  Finally, we will consider the relationships between popular culture and state formation, examining these as dialectical struggles for hegemony.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "587. (AFRC587, LALS588) Race, Nation, Empire. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "600", "description": "SM 600. Contemporary Archaeology in Theory. (C) Staff. First-year anthropology graduate students. \n\nThis graduate seminar addresses contemporary anthropological archaeology and considers the varied ways inferences are made about past and present human behavior from the archaeological record.  It reviews such fundamental topics as the use of analogy, Middle Range theory, symbolism and meaning, social and cultural evolution, ideology and power, feminism and gender, and indigenous (non-Western) perspectives.  It also foregrounds basic issues regarding heritage, looting, and ethics.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "600. Contemporary Archaeology in Theory. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "602", "description": "602. Fundamentals of Physical Anthropology. (C) Schurr. First-year anthropology graduate students.  This course is an introduction to the study of human evolution through a survey of evidence from the various subfields of physical anthropology.  Special attention will be paid to current issues and problems in these subfields, and the different ways in which researchers are attempting to understand and uncover the details of human evolution.  Among the ares of inquiry to be covered in this course include paleoanthropology, primatology, human biology, molecular anthropology, and evolutionary biology.  Some specific issues to be explored will include the primate roots of human behavior, brain and language evolution, new fossil hominids, the origina of anatomically modern humans, and human biogenetic variation.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "602. Fundamentals of Physical Anthropology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(COML603)", "num": "603", "description": "SM 603. (COML603) Language in Culture and Society. (C) Agha. First-year anthropology graduate students. \n\nFirst-year anthropology graduate students or Instructor Permission. Examination of properties of human language which enable social persons to interpret the cultural world and to act within it.  Topics include principles of lexical and grammatical organization; the role of language structure (grammar) and linguistic context (indexicality) in discursive activity; referential uses of language; social interaction; markers of social role and criteria by which models of linguistic form and function are formulated and on the empirical limits within which different models have explanatory value.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "603. (COML603) Language in Culture and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(COML605, FOLK605, MUSC605)", "num": "605", "description": "SM 605. (COML605, FOLK605, MUSC605) Anthropology of Music. (C) Staff. \n\nTheories and methods of the ethnomusicological approach to the study of music in culture, applied to selected western and non-western performance contexts.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "605. (COML605, FOLK605, MUSC605) Anthropology of Music. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(EDUC602)", "num": "606", "description": "606. (EDUC602) Youth Cultural Formations. (M) Lukose. \n\nThis course explores anthropological perspectives on peer-based youth cultures.  It explores how educational institutions, media (fashion, music, magazines), and states shape youth cultures in cross-cultural contexts through social processes such as capitalism, nationalism, and increasing globalization.  The course emphasizes ethnographies and histories which explore the relationship of these wider social processes to the lived realities of young people, situated in class, gender, national and race-specific contexts.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "606. (EDUC602) Youth Cultural Formations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "617", "description": "SM 617. Contemporary Approaches to the Study of Culture and Society. (C) Staff. First-year anthropology graduate students. \n\nA critical examination of recent history and theory in cultural and social anthropology.  Topics include structural- functionalism; symbolic anthropology; post-modern theory.  Emphasis is on major schools and trends in America, Britain, and France.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "617. Contemporary Approaches to the Study of Culture and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "618", "description": "SM 618. Mass Media and Contemporary Society. (M) Agha. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 603 or permission from Instructor. \n\nThe course examines the role of mass media in organizing and disseminating cultural norms and values in contemporary society.  Particular attention is given to two domains of organized social life, namely consumer behavior and public opinion.  The course explores the ways in which mass media organize aspects of individual preference and taste, matters of identity and lifestyle, and the sense of belonging to a common culture.  Issues of how individuals come to acquire common tastes and opinions, and attempt to vary upon them in defining their positional identities and stakes are central areas of concern. Materials from a variety of present-day societies is discussed in comparative terms.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "618. Mass Media and Contemporary Society. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "620", "description": "620. Directed Reading and Research. (C) Staff. May be repeated for credit. \n\nTo be arranged only by consultation with academic adviser and faculty member(s) to be involved; a proposed syllabus must be presented for approval, and written papers will be required without exception.  On approval of these papers one copy must be presented to the Department of Anthropology office for filing.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "620. Directed Reading and Research. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "621", "description": "621. Directed Field Training and Research. (C) Staff. May be repeated for credit. \n\nTo be arranged only by consultation with academic adviser and the faculty member(s) to be involved; a proposed syllabus must be presented for approval and written papers will be required without exception.  On approval of these papers, one copy must be presented to the Department of Anthropology office for filing.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "621. Directed Field Training and Research. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "622", "description": "SM 622. Topics in Physical Anthropology. (M) Valeggia. \n\nHumans are characterized by several distinctive life history features, e.g. large babies, late age at puberty and first reproduction, cessation of menstruation long before death, and a long life span.  In addition, our reproductive decisions are heavily influenced by society and culture.  This seminar will explore human life history from an evolutionary ecology and biocultural perspective, and will analyze the possible contributions of this approach to other disciplines such as demography, sociology, medicine, and public health.  We will read and discuss seminal papers and recent developments on the topic.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "622. Topics in Physical Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "624", "description": "SM 624. Topics in Paleoanthropology. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor. \n\nSpecific issues of anthropological interest discussed and analyzed in light of evidence available from paleoanthropology.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "624. Topics in Paleoanthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "626", "description": "SM 626. Medical Anthropology: Case Studies and Methods. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor. \n\nIntensive analysis of the application of anthropological theory and methodology to problems of human health and health care.  Offered for students in the Medical Anthropology Program.  Other qualified students may enroll with the permission of instructor.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "626. Medical Anthropology: Case Studies and Methods. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "628", "description": "628. Language in Culture and Society: Special Topics. (M) Agha. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 603 or Instructor Permission. \n\nThe course is devoted to a single research topic of contemporary interest in linguistic anthropology.  Topics vary from year to year.  Readings locate current debates in relation to longstanding assumptions in the literature and new directions in contemporary research.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "628. Language in Culture and Society: Special Topics. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH103)", "num": "630", "description": "630. (ANTH103) Ceramics and Ceramic Analysis. (M) Zettler. \n\nIntroduction to ceramics, ceramic typology and analysis.  Course will utilize largely work done on ancient Near Eastern ceramics, though it is not intended as an introduction to ancient Near Eastern ceramic sequences.  Course is intended as a practical introduction for archaeologists to ceramics, the ways ceramics are collected and dealt with in the field, ceramic typology and \"laboratory analyses\".  To provide depth the course will cover both the ways ceramics have been dealt with in the past and current trends in the study of ceramics.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "630. (ANTH103) Ceramics and Ceramic Analysis. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH230)", "num": "633", "description": "633. (ANTH230) Forensic Anthropology. (M) Monge. \n\nThis course will investigate and discuss the various techniques of analysis that biological anthropologists can apply to forensic cases.  Topics include human osteology, the recovery of bodies, the analysis of life history, the reconstruction of causes of death, and various case studies where anthropologists have contributed significantly to solving forensic cases. Discussions will include the limitations of forensic anthropology and the application of DNA recovery to skeletal/mummified materials.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "633. (ANTH230) Forensic Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH236, NELC241)", "num": "636", "description": "636. (ANTH236, NELC241) Mesopotamia: Heartland of Cities and Empires. (M) Zettler. \n\nThis course surveys the cultural traditions of ancient Mesopotamia, the land between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, a region commonly dubbed \"cradle of civilization\" or \"heartland of cities,\" from an archaeological perspective. It will investigate the emergence of sedentism and agriculture; early villages and increasingly complex Neolithic and Chalcolithic cultures; the evolution of urban, literate societies in the late 4th millennium; the city-states and incipient supra-regional polities of the third and second millennium; the gradual emergence of the Assyrian and Babylonian \"world empires,\" well-known from historical books of the Bible, in the first millennium; and the cultural mix of Mesopotamia under the successive domination of Greeks, Persians and Arabs.  The course seeks to foster an appreciation of the rich cultural heritage of ancient Mesopotamia, an understanding of cultural continuities in the Middle East and a sense of the ancient Near Eastern underpinnings of western civilization.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "636. (ANTH236, NELC241) Mesopotamia: Heartland of Cities and Empires. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC642, GSOC642)", "num": "642", "description": "SM 642. (AFRC642, GSOC642) Multiculturalism: Fieldwork and Theory. (M) Sanday. Instructor permission required. \n\nThis is primarily a fieldwork, methods, and theory course for students working in multicultural settings or on topics involving the representation of cultural difference in popular culture.  This seminar course is built around student projects.  Each student will write a final paper for the course based on their fieldwork.  Another important component of the course is the theoretical grounding of the fieldwork.  Readings will be on multicultural theory and ethnographic methods in multicultural settings.  The primary ethnographic site will be on the U.S., but students working in other multicultural settings are invited to enroll.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "642. (AFRC642, GSOC642) Multiculturalism: Fieldwork and Theory. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "643", "description": "SM 643. Globalization And Its Historical Significance. (M) Spooner. \n\nGlobalization is one of the most comprehensive topics of our time, and also one of the most controversial.  This course assesses the current state of globalization, considering it in terms of economic, political, and cultural change, and follows its progress through the semester.  The class will be led through the main t opics and debates, introduced to conceptual and empirical tools for framing academic discussion and research about its dynamics, how and when it began, and (most particularly) how it differes from earlier episodes of historical change.  Students will monitor the course of globalization in the course of the semester, take an exam on the readings and lectures, and develop their own research project on a related issue of their choice.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "643. Globalization And Its Historical Significance. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH246)", "num": "649", "description": "SM 649. (ANTH246) Molecular Anthropology. (C) Schurr. \n\nThis course explores the molecular revolution in biological anthropology, and in particular, examines the nature and theory of collecting molecular data to address anthropological questions concerning human origins, evolution and biological variation.  Students will review the methods used to analyze molecular genetic data, and learn to draw evolutionary and phylogenetic conclusions from this information.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "649. (ANTH246) Molecular Anthropology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH100, NELC281, NELC681, SAST161)", "num": "654", "description": "654. (ANTH100, NELC281, NELC681, SAST161) Topics In Anthropology and the Modern World. (A) Spooner. \n\nThis course relates anthropological models and methods to current problems in the Modern World.  The overall objective is to show how the research findings and analytical concepts of anthropology may be used to illuminate and explain events as they have unfolded in the recent news and in the course of the semester.  Each edition of the course will focus on a particular country or region that has been in the news.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "654. (ANTH100, NELC281, NELC681, SAST161) Topics In Anthropology and the Modern World. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "658", "description": "SM 658. Discourse Analysis. (C) Agha. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 603. \n\nExamination of current theories and methods in the study of discourse, including verbal and non-verbal communication.  Each student conducts an ethnographic or historical study of a discursive practice, culminating in a class presentation and term paper.  The first half of the course focuses on the study of discursive interaction in small scale face to face encounters between individuals, including methods of data collection, transcription, and analysis. \n\nThe second half takes up public discourses which involve many social actors, are linked to widespread social practices, and result in the coordination of large-scale patters of action, belief, and value in society.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "658. Discourse Analysis. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "662", "description": "SM 662. Social Reorganization: Tribes, Communities & Corporations. (M) Spooner. \n\nA wide variety of ethnographic and sociological examples of formal and informal organization will be described and analyzed within the framework of the emerging modern awareness of the possibility of organizing and reorganizing society and social groups for specific short- and long-term objectives.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "662. Social Reorganization: Tribes, Communities & Corporations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "676", "description": "676. Culture and Conflict in International Relations. (M) Spooner. \n\nSelected international conflicts will be analyzed from a cultural point of view.  This exercise will have the following advantages, each of which will be emphasized throughout the course: (a) students will study a series of internationally important situations from a distinctive academic point of view; (b) they will explore the analytical value of the concept of culture with the rigor with which it has been developed in anthropology, but in application to material not commonly treated by anthropologists, and (c) since anthropologists have difficulty comprehending and analyzing conflict within a cultural framework, they will at the same time be engaging in a theoretically experimental exercise by addressing questions concerning the relationship between conflict and cultural process.  The course should be useful both to anthropology graduate students and to students interested in the modern world in other social sciences, and will ideally attract students with a wide variety of interests.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "676. Culture and Conflict in International Relations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH102)", "num": "692", "description": "692. (ANTH102) American Civilization: The 20th Century. (C) Hammarberg. \n\nAmericans and their civilization in the twentieth century.  The first half of the course carries forward to the Depression and World War II; the second half of the course emphasizes the period from World War II to the present.  Methods and theories of cultural-historical study are addressed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "692. (ANTH102) American Civilization: The 20th Century. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "695", "description": "SM 695. Current Topics in Molecular Anthropology. (M) Schurr. \n\nAn examination of the nature and theory of collecting molecular data to address biological anthropological questions concerning human origins, evolution and biological variation.  Students will review the methods used to analyze molecular genetic data, and learn to draw evolutionary and phylogeneticconclusions from information.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "695. Current Topics in Molecular Anthropology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC701, AFST701, HIST701)", "num": "701", "description": "SM 701. (AFRC701, AFST701, HIST701) African Studies Seminar. (M) Staff. \n\nInterdisciplinary seminar for discussion of issues of special interest to graduate students and faculty in African Studies. \n\nTopics vary according to the interests and expertise of instructors.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "701. (AFRC701, AFST701, HIST701) African Studies Seminar. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(COML706, EDUC706, FOLK706, URBS706)", "num": "704", "description": "704. (COML706, EDUC706, FOLK706, URBS706) Culture/Power/Identities. (A) Lukose. \n\nThe seminar provides a forum for critically examining the interrelationships between culture,power and identities, or forms of difference and relations of inequality.  The central aim is to provide students with an introduction to classic and more recent social theories concerning the bases of social inequality and relations shaped by race, class, ethnic, national and gender differences.  Theories discussed in the course provide analytic tools for examining the role of social institutions, such as education, for mediating social hierarchy and difference.  The class will have a seminar format emphasizing close analysis and discussion of the required readings in relation to a set of overarching questions concerning the nature of power, forms of social inequality and the politics of identity and difference.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "704. (COML706, EDUC706, FOLK706, URBS706) Culture/Power/Identities. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC705, AFST705, FOLK715, MUSC705, GSOC705)", "num": "705", "description": "SM 705. (AFRC705, AFST705, FOLK715, MUSC705, GSOC705) Seminar in Ethnomusicology. (M) Staff. Open to graduate students in all departments. \n\nSeminar on selected topics in ethnomusicology.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "705. (AFRC705, AFST705, FOLK715, MUSC705, GSOC705) Seminar in Ethnomusicology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(EDUC700)", "num": "707", "description": "707. (EDUC700) The Craft of Ethnography. (B) Hall. \n\nThis course is designed to follow after Introduction to Qualitative and Ethnographic Methods (EDUC 672).  In the introductory course, students learned how to use qualitative methods in conducting a brief field study.  This advanced level course focuses on research design and specifically the craft of ethnographic research.  Students will apply what they learn in the course in writing a proposal for a dissertation research project.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "707. (EDUC700) The Craft of Ethnography. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "710", "description": "SM 710. Readings and Research in Social Organization. (M) Staff. \n\nStudy and analysis of selected problems in social organization.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "710. Readings and Research in Social Organization. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "715", "description": "SM 715. Globalization Seminar. (M) Spooner. \n\nWeekly seminar discussions will focus on current news and opinion about social and cultural change that may be interpreted as globalization in different parts of the world.  The overall objective is to develop methodological and theoretical approaches to the study of globalization.  Students taking the course for credit will be required to write a research paper.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "715. Globalization Seminar. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "717", "description": "SM 717. Cultural Motion Seminar. (C) Urban. \n\nThis is a graduate seminar/workshop for students pursuing research in anthropology at any phase - from preliminary readings, to proposal writing, to dissertation write-up - that deals in some way with cultural motion.  Students will be expected to present their own work, and to discuss the work of others, throughout the course of the seminar.  The course is appropriate for first or second year graduate students in Anthropology seeking to define a research area or already pursuing research.  It is also appropriate for third and fourth year students in the proposal-writing phase.  And, finally, the seminar will provide a forum for dissertation-writing students interested in receiving preliminary feedback on their work from peers.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "717. Cultural Motion Seminar. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH219)", "num": "719", "description": "SM 719. (ANTH219) Archaeology Field Project. (A) Schuyler. Permission of instructor required. \n\nThis is a parallel course to Anthropology 219, but on the graduate level.  It will only be open to select graduate students (i.e. historical archaeology students and some CGS MA students).  Specific permission of the instructor is required in each case.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "719. (ANTH219) Archaeology Field Project. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH220)", "num": "720", "description": "720. (ANTH220) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project. (B) Schuyler. \n\nFollow-up for Anthropology 719 and parallel course to Anthropology 220.  Class will meet in three hour sections on Fridays and Saturdays and will involve the analysis of artifacts, documentary records, oral historic sources and period illustrations collected on Southern New Jersey historic sites that Fall.  No previous archaeological or lab experience is required. (Robert L.  Schuyler: schuyler@sas.upenn.edu; (215) 898-6965; UMuseum 412).  Course may be repeated for credit.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "720. (ANTH220) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "727", "description": "SM 727. Archaeology of Latin America Seminar. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 468 or ANTH 600. \n\nAdvanced seminar for students wishing to pursue study of field data, method, theoretical problems in archaeology of Latin America.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "727. Archaeology of Latin America Seminar. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "730", "description": "SM 730. Readings & Research In Linguistic Anthropology. (D) Agha. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 603. \n\nThe course is designed for students and faculty interested in discussing current research and/or research topics in any area of linguistic or semiotic anthropology.  The primary intent of the course is to familiarize students with the literature on selected research topics and to develop their own research agendas in the light of the literature.  Students may enroll on an S/U basis for 0.5 CU per semester.  The course may be repeated for credit up to 4 times.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "730. Readings & Research In Linguistic Anthropology. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "731", "description": "SM 731. Readings and Research in Paleolithic Archaeology. (M) Dibble. Prerequisite(s): ANTH 445 or equivalent. \n\nAdvanced seminar dealing with research developments in the earlier prehistoric archaeology of Old World.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "731. Readings and Research in Paleolithic Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "734", "description": "SM 734. PostProcessual Archaeology. (M) Preucel. \n\nIs archaeology fragmenting under the weight of antagonistic research programs each of which has its own agenda and methodology?  Or is it diversifying into a collection of specialized approaches which together support a coherent and unified theory?  This seminar explores recent developments in archaeological method and theory focusing on the range of approaches that have collectively been termed \"postprocessual archaeology.\" These approaches include various combinations and admixtures of neo-Marxism, poststructuralism, critical theory, and feminism.  This seminar will examine some of the theoretical, methodological, and practical tensions within and between these positions with the goal of understanding archaeology's special relationships to the natural and social sciences.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "734. PostProcessual Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "(ANTH247)", "num": "747", "description": "747. (ANTH247) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project-Summer. (L) Schuyler. \n\nThis course is a summer version of Anth 720 (see that course for full description).  In summer more emphasis will be placed on field visitations. Course open to all graduate students; no instructor permission needed.  Course may be repeated for credit and students may take both anth 747 and 720. Questions: contact Robert L Schuyler; schuyler@sas.upen.edu; (215) 898-6965; Univ Museum 412/6398.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "747. (ANTH247) Archaeology Laboratory Field Project-Summer. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH450)", "num": "750", "description": "SM 750. (ANTH450) African American Archaeology. (M) Schuyler. \n\nArchaeology of African Americans.  Course will cover the new and productive field of the archaeology of African Americans from the 17th to the 20th centuries.  The focus will be on continental North America but some attention will also be given to West Africa (AD 1500 - present) and the West Indies.  No background (or previous courses) in archaeology or anthropology is required.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "750. (ANTH450) African American Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH451)", "num": "751", "description": "SM 751. (ANTH451) Historical Archaeology. (M) Schuyler. May be repeated for credit. \n\nGeneral background reading and tutorial preparation in the archaeology of the modern world (A.D.  1400- 20th Century).\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "751. (ANTH451) Historical Archaeology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(G)", "crosslist": "", "num": "756", "description": "SM 756. Social Anthropology Seminar. (G) Spooner. \n\nWeekly seminar discussions will be devoted to the analysis and evaluation of the social anthropology thread or threads in the history of anthropology, and their relevance to the positions and interests of cultural anthropology today. Students taking the course for credit will be required to write a research paper.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given for first term without the second term.)", "title": "756. Social Anthropology Seminar. (G)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH457)", "num": "757", "description": "SM 757. (ANTH457) Themes In Historical Archaeology. (A) Schuyler. \n\nCourse will examine research by historical archaeologists on the basic attributes of humanity.  Elements that are more biologically grounded (age, gender, race) and elements more purely cultural (ethnicity, class, occupation, nationality, religion) will both be surveyed.  Recent field findings and theoretical debates will be covered.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "757. (ANTH457) Themes In Historical Archaeology. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CINE842, COMM842)", "num": "842", "description": "SM 842. (CINE842, COMM842) The Filmic. (M) Jackson. \n\nThis interdisciplinary graduate course takes \"film\" as its object of study, theorizing it as a medium/mode of representation.  We draw on film theory, psychoanalysis, literary analysis, cognitive theory, communication studies, and visual anthropology to discuss several key issues related to the state of film/filmmaking in an age of \"digital\" media.  We interrogate contentious notions of authority, reflexivity, and objectivity.  We analyze film's claim to \"realistic\" (iconic and indexical) representation.  We interrogate how \"film\" and \"video\" get imagined in all their visual particularity, sometimes conflated into a single visual form and at other moments distinguished as a function of the difference between photochemical and electro-magnetic processes.  We also highlight the kinds of techniques filmmakers use to thematize these same issues \"on screen.\" Students will be responsible for watching one film each week (along with the the course readings), and part of the final project involves helping to produce a group documentary/ethnographic \"film\" that engages the course's central concerns.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "842. (CINE842, COMM842) The Filmic. (M) "}]