[null, null, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "135", "description": "SM 135. The Art of Speaking. (A) Weber. Students need to apply and are interviewed by the instructor and Associate Director of CWiC. \n\nThis course is designed to equip students with the major tenets of rhetorical studies and peer education necessary to work as a CWiC speaking advisor.  The course is a practicum that aims to develop students' abilities as speakers, as critical listeners and as advisors able to help others develop those abilities.  In addition to creating and \n\npresenting individual presentations, students present workshops and practice advising.  During this ABCS course, students will practice their advising skills by coaching and mentoring students at a public school in West Philadelphia.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "135. The Art of Speaking. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "220", "description": "SM 220. Literatures of the World. (M) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Staff from the various Language and Literature departments. \n\nLiteratures of the World\" is an \"umbrella course\" covering a family of related courses numbered COLL 221 to 229 each dealing with a particular non-English literature in its original language.  These courses, several of which are taught each semester, encourage the understanding of literature within the social contexts in which it was created and examine the works' continuing significance in the modern literary arena.  They also introduce students to works of creativity and cultivate their powers of textual perception by providing them with tools for literary analysis, interpretation and criticism. Although the content of the various courses is drawn from specific literary traditions, the emphasis in each course is on developing and strengthening students' general capacity for understanding meaning.  The interpretive strategies for literary analysis that the students acquire are universal and applicable to any modern literary tradition.  A crucial component of any of these classes is writing analytical essays, thereby training the students to formulate their thoughts in a coherent, well-articulated manner. \n\n The current roster includes courses from the following departments: Germanic Languages & Literatures (German); Near Eastern Languages & Literatures (Arabic, Hebrew); Romance Languages (French, Spanish); Slavic Languages (Russian); and, South Asia Studies (Hindi).\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "220. Literatures of the World. (M) "}]