[null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH123)", "num": "110", "description": "L/R 110. (ANTH123) Communication & Culture. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Agha. \n\nThe course looks at varieties of human expression - such as art, film, language- as communicative practices that connect persons together to form a common culture.  Discussion is centered around particular case studies and ethnographicexamples.  Examination of communicative practices in terms of the types of expressive signs they employ, their capacity to formulate and transmit culturalbeliefs and ideals (such as conceptions of politics, nature, and self), and to define the size and characteristics of groups and communities sharing such ideals.  Discussion of the role of media, social institutions, and technologies of communication (print, electronic).  Emphasis on contemporary communicative practices and the forms of culture that emerge in the modern world.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "110. (ANTH123) Communication & Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "123", "description": "123. Communication and Popular Culture. (M) Sender. \n\nPopular culture has been variously dismissed as mere trivia, \"just entertainment;\" it has been condemned as propaganda, a tool of mass deception; and its consumers have been dubbed fashion victims and couch potatoes.  This course considers these critiques, as well as those that suggest that popular culture offers valuable material for the study of social life.  We will consider the meanings and impact of popular culture, including its effects on how we see ourselves, others, and American life; who makes distinctions between high, middlebrow, and low or mass culture; and how power and resistance structure the production and consumption of popular texts.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "123. Communication and Popular Culture. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "125", "description": "L/R 125. Introduction to Communication Behavior. (B) Society Sector. All classes. \n\nThis course is an introduction to the fundamentals of communication behavior. It focuses on social science studies relating to the processes and effects of mass communication.  Research reviewed includes media use behavior and media influences on knowledge, perceptions of social reality, aggressive behavior, and political behavior.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "125. Introduction to Communication Behavior. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "130", "description": "130. Mass Media and Society. (A) Society Sector. All classes. Turow. \n\nHow might we think about the legal, political, economic, historical, and \"cultural\" considerations that shape what we watch on TV, read in books, stare at in billboards?  What ideas are relevant for examining the enormous changes in the mass media system and the consequences of those changes?  The aim of this course is to begin to answer these questions by acquainting you with the workings of American mass media as an integral part of American society.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "130. Mass Media and Society. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE203)", "num": "140", "description": "140. (CINE203) Film Forms and Contexts. (C) Messaris. \n\nMovies as a form of audio-visual communication: their formal language, their relationship to other means of communication (music, stories, theater, pictures), their place in the media industry, their role in culture.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "140. (CINE203) Film Forms and Contexts. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "225", "description": "225. Children and Media. (D) Jordan. \n\nThis course examines children's relationship to media in its historic, economic, political and social contexts.  The class begins with an exploration of the ways in which \"childhood\" is created and understood as a time of life that is qualitatively unique and socially constructed over time.  It continues with a review of various theories of child development as they inform children's relationship with and understanding of television and other household media.  It next reviews public policies designed to empower parents and limit children's exposure to potentially problematic media content and simultaneously considers the economic forces that shape what children see and buy.  Children and Media concludes with a critical examination of research on the impact of media on children's physical, cognitive, social and psychological development.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "225. Children and Media. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSCI232)", "num": "226", "description": "226. (PSCI232) Introduction to Political Communication. (C) Jamieson. \n\nThis course is an introduction to the field of political communication, conceptual approaches to analyzing communication in various forms, including advertising, speech making, campaign debates, and candidates' and office- holders' uses of news.  The focus of this course is on the interplay in the U.S. between television and politics.  The course includes a history of televised campaign practices from the 1952 presidential contest through the election of 2008.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "226. (PSCI232) Introduction to Political Communication. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "237", "description": "237. Health Communication. (M) Hornik/Staff. \n\nAn examination of the influence of public health communication on health behavior.  The course will consider: intervention programs addressing behaviors related to cancer, cardiovascular disease, HIV/AIDS, drug use, obesity and others; theories of health behavior change; issues in the design of effective health communication programs; concerns about the portrayal of health and medicine on mass media.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "237. Health Communication. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE241)", "num": "241", "description": "241. (CINE241) Featurelength Motion Pic. (C) Prerequisite(s): COMM140 or COMM262. \n\nThis course gives students the opportunity to participate in the production of a feature-length fiction film.  Students engage in all aspects of production, including: screenplay writing, production design, cinematography, production sound, acting, and directing.  The course is intended as a follow-up to COMM 140, Film Forms and Contexts, and COMM 262, Visual Communication.  Students who have not taken either of those courses should consult with the instructor before enrolling.  COMM 241 is followed by COMM 242.  Students may enroll in either or both.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "241. (CINE241) Featurelength Motion Pic. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE242)", "num": "242", "description": "L/L 242. (CINE242) Feature-Length Motion-Picture Production Laboratory II. (C) Messaris. \n\nThis course gives students the opportunity to participate in the production of a feature-length fiction film.  Students engage in all aspects of production, including: screenplay writing, production design, cinematography, production sound, acting, and directing.  The course is intended as a follow-up to COMM241, Feature-Length Motion-Picture Production Laboratory I.  Students may enroll in either semester, or both.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "242. (CINE242) Feature-Length Motion-Picture Production Laboratory II. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CINE150, ENGL078)", "num": "250", "description": "250. (CINE150, ENGL078) Television Studies. (M) \n\nPrinciples of human information processing are discussed and applied to common communication settings.  Processes discussed include perception, attention, and short and long term memory.  The processing of visual, verbal, and auditory information is considered in each of these structures.  Applications to the comprehension and production of visual and verbal messages, conversation, group discussion, social inference making (including judgment, attribution, and empathy), the psychology of speaking and writing, and listening and reading, of attitude formation and change, and mass communication contexts.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "250. (CINE150, ENGL078) Television Studies. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE204)", "num": "262", "description": "262. (CINE204) Visual Communication. (C) Messaris. \n\nExamination of the structure and effects of visual media (film, television, advertising, and other kinds of pictures).\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "262. (CINE204) Visual Communication. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "275", "description": "275. Communication and Persuasion. (C) Cappella/Staff. \n\nTheory, research and application in the persuasive effects of communication in social and mass contexts.  Primary focus on the effects of messages on attitudes, opinions, values, and behaviors.  Applications include political, commercial, and public service advertising; propaganda; and communication campaigns (e.g. anti-smoking).\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "275. Communication and Persuasion. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "299", "description": "SM 299. Communications Internship. (D) Staff. \n\nSeminar for students concurrently participating in department-approved internships in communication-related organizations.  Students will develop independent research agendas to investigate aspects of their internship experience or industry.  Building on written field notes, assigned readings, and classroom discussion and evaluation, students will produce final papers using ethnographic methods to describe communications within their site or industry in order to understand and critically examine their hands-on experiences.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "299. Communications Internship. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "300", "description": "300. Public Space, Public Life. (C) Marvin/Staff. \n\nPublic space as a communicative arena.  Historical aspects, varieties of public space, public space as a cultural signifier, how public space facilitates or hinders common life, public space as a component of democracy.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "300. Public Space, Public Life. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "322", "description": "SM 322. History and Theory of Freedom of Expression. (C) Marvin. \n\nOrigins, purpose, theory, practice of freedom of expression in the West. Philosophical roots of contemporary debates about expressive limits, especially problems associated with mass communication.  Major topics may include but are not limited to sexual expression, violence, hate speech, traitorous and subversive speech, non-verbal expression, artistic expression, privacy.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "322. History and Theory of Freedom of Expression. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "323", "description": "SM 323. Contemporary Politics, Policy and Journalism. (B) Hunt. \n\n\"Contemporary Politics, Policy and Journalism\" is a course on the modern media and its impact on government and politics.  It primarily covers the post-Watergate/post-Vietnam era of journalism, the past quarter century.  We will focus each week on specific topics and areas of post-Watergate journalism as enumerated below.  In weeks we do not have guest lecturers, the first half of class will concern the assigned readings and the second half of class will talk about current press coverage of national events over the prior week.  In addition to assigned readings, students are required to stay informed about major national news stories and to follow coverage of them in the national media outlets.  An important objective of this course is to afford students the opportunity to interact and discuss the intersection of the press, politics and public policy with some of the leading practitioners in the field, people who work in the \"media environment\" created by the national press.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "323. Contemporary Politics, Policy and Journalism. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "325", "description": "SM 325. Adolescent Media Culture & Behavior. Bleakley. \n\nThe purpose of this course is to examine the role of media in adolescent development and behavior.  We will review current research several topic areas and use various theoretical perspectives to consider how adolescent interact with media and how media influence adolescents' self and behavior.  The course is divided into 3 sectiond.  First we focus on the adolescent as a consumer/audience by addressing such issues as why adolescence is a unique developmental stage, how adolescents use media, and understanding their media habits with regards to different media and technologies.  The next section of the course will be devoted to reviewing relevant theoretical perspectives on how media influence self and behavior, followed by exploring the effects of media across several areas of research including violence, sex, body image, obesity, and smoking.  Finally, the course will conclude with a discussion of the potential for media as a positive factor in adolescent lives with an emphasis on media interventions and campaigns for self (e.g. attitudinal) and behavior change.", "title": "325. Adolescent Media Culture & Behavior."}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "330", "description": "330. Advertising and Society. (M) Turow. \n\nThis course will explore the historical and contemporary role of the advertising industry in the U.S. media system. \n\nReadings will include social histories of advertising, economic examinations of advertising's role in society, and critical analysis of the ad industry's power over the media.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "330. Advertising and Society. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "336", "description": "SM 336. Local News Media and Urban Policy. (M) Kaniss. \n\nThis course will examine the nature of local news in the 21st century and the the ways in which local news coverage influences urban policies, the actions of local officials, and the image of the city.  The course will begin with an examination of how economic forces influence local news coverage in particular, the importance of political geography.  We will look at how suburbanization and the rise of local television newscasts affected metropolitan newspapers in the 20th century, and how the more recent emergence of the Internet now affects what is considered \"local news.\" The class will also consider innovations in local news, including citizen journalism and \"hyperlocalism,\" ,\" blogs and free dailies targeted to youth.  At the same time, the course will examine the changing professional values and \"standard operating procedures\" of local journalists in the face of new competition.  We will also consider how local news is influenced by the media strategies of local public officials, and how these local officials-in particular, big- city mayors-play a role in the local news media's fortunes.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "336. Local News Media and Urban Policy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "339", "description": "339. Critical Perspectives in Journalism. (M) Zelizer/Delli Carpini. \n\nThis course aims to provide students with a critical understanding of journalism.  It combines theoretical perspectives on the making of news with primary source material produced by and about journalists.  Students will analyze theoretical material on journalism -- about how news is made, shaped, and performed -- alongside articles and broadcasts appearing in the media, interviews with journalists in the trade press, and professional reviews. Topics include models of journalistic practice, journalistic values and norms, gatekeeping and sourcing practices, storytelling formats in news, and ethical problems related to misrepresentation, plagiarism, and celebrity.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "339. Critical Perspectives in Journalism. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "340", "description": "SM 340. Basic Communication Research. (A) Hennessy. \n\nThis course is a general overview of the important components of social research.  The first third of the semester presents a conceptual basis for assessing research quality based on the four \"types of validity.\" We also cover the standard elements of research design including sampling, measurement, and causal inference.  These concepts are then illustrated through reviews of four research areas: surveys and field studies, qualitative/ethnographic studies, content analysis, and policy/evaluation studies.  The last third of the semester focuses more on descriptive and inferential statistics, measures of association for categorical and continuous variables, and the language of data analysis.  For these classes, we make use of SMALL STATA, a PC program useful for learning statistics.  Most modules are illustrated through class exercises based on published articles.  This course fulfills the undergraduate quantitative requirement.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "340. Basic Communication Research. (A)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "341", "description": "SM 341. Children's Media Policy. Jordan. \n\nThis course takes a philosophical, historical, and practical approach to understanding why and how the US media industries are regulated.  It begins by examining the philosophical tension regarding free speech rights vs. child protection obligations and the media effects beliefs that would drive media regulation.  Next, it examines the process of media policy formation and implementation, including the role of regulatory agencies, industry lobbyists, academic researchers and child advocates in advancing distinct policy agendas. Throughout the course we survey a range of policy actions, from legislatively required parental monitoring tools (such as the V-Chip) to voluntary industry efforts (such as network restriction of junk food advertising).  We consider evidence of the success of these efforts in limiting children's exposure to damaging content and in improving parents' ability to supervise their children's media use.", "title": "341. Children's Media Policy."}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "362", "description": "362. Visual Communication Lab. (M) Messaris. Prerequisite(s): COMM 262. \n\nFollow-up to Comm 262, Visual Communication.  The laboratory provides an opportunity for students to explore through actual media production many of the conceptual principles and research findings discussed in Comm 262 and other communication courses.  Permission of instructor required for enrollment.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "362. Visual Communication Lab. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(PSCI374)", "num": "374", "description": "SM 374. (PSCI374) Communication and Congress. (M) Felzenberg. \n\nThis course will examine how Congress goes about the business of translating the public's concerns into legislation and keeps the public informed of its progress.  It will examine how the two chambers interact in this process, what role the media plays in shaping Congress's agenda and vice versa, and what impact the advent of 24 hour news, C-SPAN and the internet have had on Congressional deliberations.  A historical approach will be taken in considering the evolution of both chambers and the media's coverage of them. Students will examine differences between the House and Senate in both their institutional development and how they go about communicating with each other, the general public, and the other branches and levels of government.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "374. (PSCI374) Communication and Congress. (M)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "375", "description": "SM 375. Communications and Emergency Response. Felzenberg. \n\nA series of unforeseen and unprecedented emergencies in recent years have posed steep challenges to private businesses, non-profit institutions, and local,state and federal government.  Terrorist attacks, natural disasters, hurricanes, financial collapse and other crises have posed unique communications challenges to people in positions of authority.  Increasingly, they have had to implement plans, make announcements, and order evacuations, often on short notice, and strategies that have minimized damage and enhanced the security of the greatest number of people as well as those that have not. On occasion, guests, who have had been on the front lines in emergency situations will appear in class to enhance students appreciate of the extent of these challenges and to share their ideas as to how they might best be handled.  Readings will focus on case studies of historical and contemporary emergency situations and how policy makers addressed them.", "title": "375. Communications and Emergency Response."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "385", "description": "SM 385. Media Activism and Social Change. Garry. \n\nThis course offers students the opportunity to explore the relationship between the media industry and the public and the role groups and movements can play in holding the media accountable to serve the public interest.  We will wrestle with what that responsibility looks like by engaging the following questions: What obligations do media outlets have to offer fair, accurate, unbiased and inclusive representations in news and entertainment? How do media \"insiders\" understand this responsibility?  Is it clear when a talk show host \"crosses the line?\" How do we define balance?  Are there really two sides to every issue?  What is media advocacy?  What does it look like? What are the strategies and tactics employed by media activists?  How do media insiders effectively contend with media outsiders lobbying for change?  These questions will be explored in historically contextualized ways, using a diverse menu of social and political movements and examining the issues with recourse to all sides of the political spectrum.", "title": "385. Media Activism and Social Change."}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "395", "description": "SM 395. Communication and the Presidency. (D) Eisenhower. \n\nThis course will examine the vital aspect of communication as a tool of the modern Presidency.  Reading and class discussions will focus on case studies drawn from modern Presidential administrations (beginning with FDR) that demonstrate the elements of successful and unsuccessful Presidential initiatives and the critical factor of communication, common to both.  This course is also an introduction to primary research methods and to the use of primary research materials in the Presidential Library system.  Applications for course available in the Undergraduate Office.  Preference given to ComPS students.  Majors only.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "395. Communication and the Presidency. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "396", "description": "SM 396. Media Events. (C) Katz. \n\nLive broadcasts of historic events - contests, conquests, and coronations - constitute a new form of ceremonial politics whereby television joins the establishment and audience to declare a holiday.  The course will analyze this genre - its diffusion, politics, aesthetics, ethnography, and effects.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "396. Media Events. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "398", "description": "SM 398. Special Topics in Communication. (D) Staff.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "398. Special Topics in Communication. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "399", "description": "399. Independent Study. (D) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Written proposal signed and approved by faculty supervisor. \n\nThe independent study offers the self-motivated student an opportunity for a tailored, academically rigorous, semester- long investigation into a topic of the student's choice with faculty supervision.  Its structure and purpose is different from the internship experience.  Students must also complete and file a designated form, approved and signed by the supervising faculty member and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, which includes a topic proposal.  This form must be received in the Undergraduate Office during the Add period of the semester during which the independent study will be conducted.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "399. Independent Study. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "405", "description": "SM 405. Facing Race: Race and Caricature in the Historical Imagination. (C) Pearl. \n\nIs race imaginary?  If so, who invented facial distinctions and why can we see them?  Do pictures change the way we think?  How do artists think about the people they draw and satirize?  This course will explore the relationship between caricature and perceptions of racial difference in modern western culture.  We will interrogate the role that visual images play in framing our perceptions of groups and their defining characteristics.  Broadly historical, this interdisciplinary course will introduce students to scholarship in visual culture, media studies, science studies, and race theory.  Students will develop skills in primary source analysis, historical methodology, and visual analysis. \n\nAssignments will include a visual analysis, 4 short papers, and a final exam.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "405. Facing Race: Race and Caricature in the Historical Imagination. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "408", "description": "SM 408. Children and Media: Cognitive Development. (M) Linebarger. Prerequisite(s): COMM 125 and COMM 225. \n\nThis seminar is designed to investigate the relationships between children's cognitive development and their use of media (i.e., television, computers, the Internet, video games, electronic toys).  We will examine normal patterns of children's thinking and how these patterns are situated in children's lives (e.g., contextual factors that mediate cognitive functioning).  Then, students will apply these concepts to understand both the creation of and the effects associated with media.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "408. Children and Media: Cognitive Development. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SOCI409)", "num": "410", "description": "SM 410. (SOCI409) New Media and Community Life. (C) Hampton. Prerequisite(s): COMM 125 or COMM 130. \n\nThis upper level course provides an overview of recent research on the social implications of new media.  The focus is on how recent technological innovations, including personal computing, the Internet and mobile phones may be changing the way we interact with each other, our environments and those around us.  This seminar takes students beyond the basic questions of \"are virtual communities real communities?\" and \"does the Internet destroy or save community?\" to an in- depth discussion of how networks of community relations are maintained and transformed on and offline as a result of new media.  The course is based around the argument that computer networks are inherently social networks, linking people, organizations and communities.  This subject is heavily weighted towards the evaluation of empirical studies, the use of social network analysis, and studies that address sociological research questions.  Students will learn to critically examine the impact of new media on society through in-depth seminars and independent research.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "410. (SOCI409) New Media and Community Life. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "413", "description": "SM 413. The Role of Public Opinion in Leadership Decisions. (C) Hart. \n\nThis course endeavors to explore the myriad uses of public opinion in leadership and decision making.  In it, we will examine what public opinion research is, how it is conducted, and how it is subsequently utilized in a wide range of contexts, both public and private.  We will use numerous actual case studies involving public opinion in political campaigns, constituency organizing, crisis management, and a variety of other contexts to provide an inside view of how opinion research is actually conducted and used.  We will consider such questions as: How does an incumbent politician formulate strategy and successfully communicate message in the midst of a dirty politics/decidedly anti- incumbent Senatorial campaign?  What would you do if you were Governor and your roads and highways needed improvements, but the public opposed a new gas tax?  If you were a CEO of a large company and you had safety concerns about some of your products, how would you balance your corporate image and reputation against the independence from government influence?\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "413. The Role of Public Opinion in Leadership Decisions. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "418", "description": "SM 418. Nothing New Under the Heavens: The History of 'Old Media'. (A) PEARL. \n\nIn this course, we will explore the history of media innovations and revolutions in the Western world.  Following a brief look at early cave writing and papyrus, we move to early modern developments in print-making.  We will analyze different methods of image reproduction, focusing in particular on the printing press and its social and cultural impact. \n\nWe will discuss the implications of the printing press for literacy, political life, democracy, the post, and visual culture. \n\nWe track track changes in print culture through the nineteenth century, thinking about the relationship between the explosion in printed material and the development of the middle class.  We will connect changes in print culture to early photography, film, and radio, thinking about how this history created the conditions of possibility for \"new media.\" In this class, we search for continuities that will help us frame current debates and scholarship on new media and its implications.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "418. Nothing New Under the Heavens: The History of 'Old Media'. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH423)", "num": "422", "description": "SM 422. (ANTH423) Televised Redemption. (M) Jackson. \n\nThis course examines some of the ways in which religious groups mobilize media technologies and respond to the inescapable ubiquity of mass mediation. Students will try to determine how such mass mediation helps to to build/reconfigure transnational communities of spiritual belief and practice. The course focuses on various forms of Christianity, Judaism, and Islam (especially, but not exclusively, in their African-American incarnations) in an effort to assess how their practitioners deploy media technology to to disseminate (and as part of) their religious/spiritual cosmologies.  For example, we will look at (i) Christianity and televangelism, (ii) Muslim self-representations in film and broadcast radio/television, and (iii) Jewish (including \"Black Hebrew\") uses of cable access programs, self- produced DVDs/CDs, and the Internet.  We will try to ascertain how new media technologies recalibrate traditional religious practices and potentially reconfigure theological and Diasporic communities.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "422. (ANTH423) Televised Redemption. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "439", "description": "SM 439. Media Criticism. (M) Zelizer. \n\nCriticism has at its core an assumption of judgment about the target or performance being evaluated.  Yet whose judgment is being articulated?  On which basis and authority?  To which ends?  And with which effects?  This course examines the shape of contemporary media criticism, focusing on its meaning function in different domains of popular culture (including music, television, news, and film) and the patterns by which it is produced. Students will become acquainted with theories and ongoing debates about contemporary media criticism themselves.  The course aims to sensitize students to the nuances of their own consumption of criticism and patterns by which it is typically produced.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "439. Media Criticism. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CINE462)", "num": "462", "description": "SM 462. (CINE462) Visual Communication and Social Advocacy. (M) Messaris. Prerequisite(s): COMM 262. \n\n\"The course explores the use of video and other visual media for social causes.  Students choose their own area of interest, conduct background research, design and produce videos, and post them on-line.  The course uses a seminar format, and class size is limited to fifteen people.\"\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "462. (CINE462) Visual Communication and Social Advocacy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "485", "description": "SM 485. Globalization and the Music Video. Kraidy. \n\nThis seminar focuses on the music video genre to explore topical and conceptual the heart of the globalization of the media and cultural industries.  After a formative period largely grounded in North America and Western Europe, the music video migrated to other parts of the world in the 1990s as a wave of privatization and liberalization engulfed national media systems worldwide.  Based on a variety of scholarly and trade readings about the globalization of media and culture, the changing media and creative industries, and the music video genre itself, questions to be tackled include: What changes when a media form migrates from its original context?  What does the content of music videos reveal about socio-economic and cultural change worldwide?  How do music videos rearticulate gender and sexuality, and nationalism?  What transnational circuits of ideas, images and ideologies are enabled or constrained by music video?", "title": "485. Globalization and the Music Video."}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "495", "description": "495. COMPS Capstone Thesis. (D) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Written proposal approved by both thesis supervisor and major chair. \n\nOffered for credit in the senior year, the capstone thesis is the project goal for all Communication & Public Service Program participants.  Students choose the topic of the capstone thesis from a range of public policy/public service issues.  Research may involve funded travel to selected archives or fieldwork sites.  For students graduating with a 3.5 cumulative GPA, the capstone project may be designated as a senior honors thesis in public service.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "495. COMPS Capstone Thesis. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SOCI430)", "num": "496", "description": "SM 496. (SOCI430) Leisure, Communication and Culture. (C) Katz. \n\nEver since God created the six-day work week, humans have been trying to decide how to use leisure.  This course focuses on the allocation of time among different social functions, with particular reference to the idea that culture and communication may be considered the content of leisure.  Readings range from empirical studies of \"time budgets,\" to studies of the production and consumption of the arts, entertainment, holidays and tourism.  \"Culture policy,\" especially the role of government in the arts, will be considered comparatively and historically.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "496. (SOCI430) Leisure, Communication and Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "499", "description": "499. Senior Honors Thesis. (D) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Written proposal approved by both thesis supervisor and major chair. \n\nThe senior honors thesis provides a capstone intellectual experience for students who have demonstrated academic achievement of a superior level. Students should consult with and arrange for a supervisor from the standing faculty no later then the middle of the term that precedes the honors thesis. Students must file a designated form, approved and signed by the supervising faculty member and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, which includes a topic proposal.  This form must be received by the Undergraduate Office no later than the last day of classes in the semester that precedes the thesis.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "499. Senior Honors Thesis. (D)"}, null, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "500", "description": "500. Proseminar. (A) Staff. \n\nIntroduction to the field of communications study and to the graduate program in communications.  Required of all degree candidates.  Open only to graduate students in communication.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "500. Proseminar. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "522", "description": "522. Introduction to Communication Research. (A) Hornik/Price, V. \n\nThe logic of scientific inquiry and the nature of research.  Problem-oriented approach to research design, field and laboratory observation and experimentation, sampling, systematization of observation, instrument construction, interviewing and content analysis, and basic statistical analysis.  Required of all degree candidates.  Open only to graduate communication students.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "522. Introduction to Communication Research. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "523", "description": "SM 523. Field Methods in Communication Research. (M) Sender. \n\nThis course is designed to introduce graduate students in the social sciences to ethnography as a formal research method, drawing on case studies, \"how to\" materials, and writings from a variety of disciplines.  We will focus on the theory, logic, and practice of fieldwork, specific methodological and ethical issues associated with studying people at first-hand, and current debates about what constitutes the bounds and limits of the ethnographic enterprise more generally.  This course presumes some introductory undergraduate training in qualitative methods.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "523. Field Methods in Communication Research. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "524", "description": "524. Introduction to Statistical Analysis. (C) Hennessy. \n\nThis course is designed for students with no previous statistical experience or past courses.  It starts with descriptive statistics, graphs, and plots, covers probability and confidence intervals, and ends up with bivariate regression and measures of association for tables.  The course is \"hands-on\" using Stata, a personal computer program.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "524. Introduction to Statistical Analysis. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "525", "description": "525. Politics and the Media. (M) Delli Carpini. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nAn examination of theory and research regarding the role of mass communication in the political process.  Topics will include: the development of the field; the role of communication in campaigns and elections; the impact of communication on alternative forms of civic and political engagement; the role of communication in the policy-making process; new media and the political process; and issues of media regulation.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "525. Politics and the Media. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "530", "description": "530. Advertising and Society. (M) Turow. Fulfills ASC Institutions Distribution. \n\nAdvertising and Society will explore the development of the advertising industry in the U.S., the relationship between the advertising industry and the U.S. mass media, and historical as well as contemporary discussions of advertising's social and cultural roles.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "530. Advertising and Society. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "539", "description": "SM 539. Journalism and the Academy. (M) Zelizer. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nContemporary journalism remains one of the most studied yet unexplained agents of reality construction.  This course tracks theories of journalism across academic disciplines, exploring what is common and disparate about the varied perspectives they invoke.  Topics include the development of journalism as a field of academic inquiry, histories of news, organizational research on the newsroom, narrative and discourse analytic work on news-texts, and recent work in cultural studies.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "539. Journalism and the Academy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "545", "description": "SM 545. Children and Media. (C) Linebarger. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nThis course will explore the nature of television and new technologies and investigate how these technologies influence children and families.  Course content will be approached from both an industry perspective as well as a social scientific perspective.  That is, we will explore the child audience as present consumers, as influencers of purchasing decisions, and as future consumers.  We will examine how marketers target the child audience.  From a researcher's perspective, we will examine the history of children's media use, the effects of television on children, children's cognitive and emotional interactions with television, and the design of educational TV programs and media products. \n\nCurrent social policy concerns will also be addressed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "545. Children and Media. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "550", "description": "SM 550. Mass Media Industries. (M) Turow. Fulfills ASC Institutions Requirement. \n\nThrough theoretical readings and case studies, this course will provide an introduction to the study of media institutions from the standpoint of business processes, legal frameworks, and public policies.  The first part of the course will sketch the history of major US media and present conceptual frameworks for understanding industrial, legal and policy approaches to US media institutions.  Part 2 will explore key contemporary industrial, legal and policy issues relating to particular US media industries.  Part 3 of the course will use case studies to apply and deepen understanding of the frameworks and issues.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "550. Mass Media Industries. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "555", "description": "SM 555. Social Networks. (M) Hampton. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nThis course is a non-mathematical introduction to the social network perspective.  The social network approach is the study of the relations linking persons, organizations, interest groups, states, etc.  Network analysis examines how the structure of social relations allocates resources, constrains behavior, and channels social change.  Participants in this course will discuss the application of classical and contemporary theories and methods of network analysis to sociological questions.  Topics include community, social capital, the flow of information and resources, and computer networks as social networks.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "555. Social Networks. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "562", "description": "562. Fundamentals of Visual Communication. (B) Messaris. Fulfills ASC Culture or Influence Distribution. \n\nIntroduction to the study of picture-based media: film, television, web, print, and other images.  Theory and research on visual culture, visual \"literacy,\" and visual persuasion.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "562. Fundamentals of Visual Communication. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "566", "description": "SM 566. New Media and Society. (M) Hampton. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nThis seminar provides an overview of recent research on how \"new media,\" such as the Internet and mobile phones, influence community, social relationships, and public and private spaces.  This subject is heavily weighted towards the evaluation of empirical work, the study of social networks, and research that address sociological research questions. \n\nExamples of questions that will be explored in this course include: Will new media replace existing forms of communication, such as face-to-face and telephone contact?  Does the use of mobile information and communication technologies (ICTs) increase privatism? Are people cut off from their social networks as a result of in-home computer and Internet use?  Will public participation and civil society atrophy as a result of new media use?\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "566. New Media and Society. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "575", "description": "575. Social Psychology of Communication. (A) Cappella. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nContributions of social psychology to understanding communication behavior: message systems; social cognition; persuasive communications; attitude formation and change; face-to-face interactions and small group situations; strategies of attributional and communicative interpretation; mass communication effects; social influence and networks.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "575. Social Psychology of Communication. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSCI576)", "num": "576", "description": "SM 576. (PSCI576) Communication & Public Opinion. (C) Price, V. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nAn exploration of enduring research questions concerning mass communication and American public opinion.  The course introduces students to the literature on public opinion, with a focus on the role of communication in public opinion formation and change.  Important normative, conceptual and theoretical issues are identified and examined by reviewing some early writings (ca.  1890-1930) in social philosophy and social science.  These issues are then investigated further through a review and discussion of relevant research in sociology, political science, social psychology and mass communication.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "576. (PSCI576) Communication & Public Opinion. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSYC774)", "num": "577", "description": "SM 577. (PSYC774) Attitude and Behavioral Prediction. (C) Fishbein. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nAn introduction to the concept of attitude and its role in behavioral prediction.  The course will cover standardized attitude measurement instruments (e.g., Thurstone, Likert, Guttman and Semantic Differential Scales), expectancy- value models, psychological or individual-level theories of behavior and behavior change, and will consider the implications of attitude theory and measurement for developing effective behavior change communications.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "577. (PSYC774) Attitude and Behavioral Prediction. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "602", "description": "SM 602. Media Ritual. (M) Marvin. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nExamines the relationship between ritual, a 'traditional' and essential mode of group communication and the pervasive media environment of post-traditional society.  While societies seem eager to ritualize with all media at their disposal, the historical innovation of mass mediated ritual appears to offer a significant challenge to the body-based social connectedness that has long been regarded as definitive for ritual communication.  Students will read from religious, anthropological and media traditions of ritual scholarship to consider what rituals do, how they do it, how they can be said to succeed or fail and how mediated ritual modifies or transforms older systems of ritual communication.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "602. Media Ritual. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "608", "description": "SM 608. Children & Media: Cognitive Development. (M) Linebarger. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nThis course is designed to investigate the relationships between children's cognitive development and their use of media (i.e., television, computers, the Internet, video games, electronic toys, museums, and books).  We will examine normal patterns of children's thinking and how these patterns are situated in children's lives (e.g., contextual factors that mediate cognitive functioning).  Cognitive development will be examined via both basic functions (i.e., attention, comprehension, representation, memory, problem-solving) and applied functions (i.e., literacy, language, numeracy). \n\nWithin each topical area, various contextual factors will be explored including gender, people (e.g., parents, peers, caregivers/teachers), and perceptions.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "608. Children & Media: Cognitive Development. (M)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(CINE619)", "num": "619", "description": "SM 619. (CINE619) The Politics and Practices of Representation. Sender. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nThis course engages with the following question from both theoretical and practical perspectives: Who says what about whom, under what circumstances, in which medium, with what effects?  We will spend the first two thirds of the semester investigating different approaches to this question, looking at insider accounts, processes of othering, realism and other narrative conventions, the ethics of consent, \"objective\" and \"biased\" shooting techniques, the politics of editing, the role of the intended audience in the production of a work, and so on.  We will simultaneously cover the technical aspects of production that will enable you to produce digital video projects: shooting (Canon GL1s), lighting, sound, editing (Final Cut Pro on Mac), graphics, music, and so on.  During the final third of the semester all students will produce short (5-10 minute) documentary and/or experimental digital videos.", "title": "619. (CINE619) The Politics and Practices of Representation."}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(COML797)", "num": "622", "description": "SM 622. (COML797) Communicating Memory. (M) Marvin/Zelizer. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nThis course considers the theoretical and empirical literature concerning the construction of social memory in relation to media products and processes. Students will undertake individual research projects investigating memory constructions in professional media routines and through ritual processes of group maintenance.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "622. (COML797) Communicating Memory. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "623", "description": "SM 623. Health Psychology Seminar. (M) Jemmott. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nSeminar members shall critically review current applications of psychosocial theory and methodology to health-related issues with the goal of suggesting new directions that research might take.  Preventive health behavior, HIV risk- associated behavior, psychosocial factors and physical health, practitioner-patient interactions, patterns of utilization of health services, and compliance with medical regimens are among the topics that will be studied.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "623. Health Psychology Seminar. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "624", "description": "SM 624. Applied Regression Analysis. (M) Hennessy. \n\nThis course focuses on the use of regression analysis and other related statistical methods that are appropriate when experimental control is low or nonexistent.  The main purposes of the course are: to convey complete familiarity with regression techniques to enable students to understand the application of regression in communication research literature, to be able to apply these procedures at the most advanced level properly in their own research, to be able to diagnose when violations of regression assumptions are present in data and correct for these conditions, and to lay the foundations for more advanced studies in categorical data analysis (e.g. binary and multinominal logit and probit) and structural equations modeling (SEM).  The course assumes knowledge of introductory statistics through summary statistics, confidence intervals, t-tests, F tests, scatter diagrams, and the logic of statistical association.  The course begins with a detailed review of bivariate regression.  Students can use either STATA or SPSS to analyze artificial and actual data sets and we also use detailed examples from AMOS and Mplus.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "624. Applied Regression Analysis. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(SOCI629)", "num": "628", "description": "SM 628. (SOCI629) Sociology of Mass Communications. (A) Wright. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nMass communications viewed from sociological perspective.  An examination of the sociology of the communicator, audience, content, effects, communication as a social process, linkage between personal and mass communication.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "628. (SOCI629) Sociology of Mass Communications. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "632", "description": "SM 632. Conceptualizing Media Effects. (C) Katz. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nThe course is a critical review of the major theories of mass communication extracting from each its conception of the audience, the text, and especially the nature of effect.  Conceptions of effect are shown to range from short-run change of opinion and attitudes (\"what to think\") to proposals that the media offer tools \"with which to think\" (gratifications research; cultural studies), \"when to think\" (diffusion research), \"what to think about\" (agenda setting), \"how to think\" (technological theories), \"what not to think\" (critical theories), \"what to feel\" (psychoanalytic theories), and \"with whom to think\" (sociological theories).  Students study the key texts of each theoretical approach, and reappraise the field in the light of new concepts and new evidence.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "632. Conceptualizing Media Effects. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "633", "description": "SM 633. Consumer Culture. (M) Sender. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nWhy do we consume?  What is consumption for?  By exploring a range of theoretical and empirical approaches to consumer culture, this course investigates the contexts and effects of consumption on social participation, identities, and communities.  In addition to looking at existing studies of consumer culture, students complete a modest, originally-conceived research project.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "633. Consumer Culture. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "637", "description": "637. Public Health Communication. (B) Hornik. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nTheories of health behavior change and the potential role for public health communication; international experience with programs addressing behaviors related to cancer, AIDS, obesity, cardiovascular disease, child mortality, drug use and other problems, including evidence about their influence on health behavior; the design of public health communication programs; approaches to research and evaluation for these programs.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "637. Public Health Communication. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(COML639, FOLK639)", "num": "639", "description": "SM 639. (COML639, FOLK639) Communication and Cultural Studies. (M) Zelizer. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nThis course tracks the different theoretical appropriations of \"culture\" and examines how the meanings we attach to it depend on the perspectives through which we define it.  The course first addresses perspectives on culture suggested by anthropology, sociology, communication, and aesthetics, and then considers the tensions across academic disciplines that have produced what is commonly known as \"cultural studies.\" The course is predicated on the importance of becoming cultural critics versed in alternative ways of naming cultural problems, issues, and texts.  The course aims not to lend closure to competing notions of culture but to illustrate the diversity suggested by different approaches.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "639. (COML639, FOLK639) Communication and Cultural Studies. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(I)", "crosslist": "", "num": "640", "description": "640. Analysis of Data in Large-Sample Communication Research. (I) Hornik. Prerequisite(s): COMM 522 and 524, or the equivalents. \n\nStatement of measurement and substantive models, and strategies for examining the fit of data to those models. Examples and data are drawn from the media effects literature. Application of data reduction procedures, contingency table analysis, and correlational approaches including regression and structural equation models.\n\n(Course offered fall odd-numbered years.)", "title": "640. Analysis of Data in Large-Sample Communication Research. (I)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "642", "description": "SM 642. Diffusion of Innovation. (M) Katz. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nHow things (and ideas) spread, with special reference to the linkages between media and interpersonal networks Classic writings (Tarde, Sorokin, Simmel) on diffusion processes will be reviewed in the light of contemporary research.  A variety of case studies originating in different disciplines will be compared.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "642. Diffusion of Innovation. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "644", "description": "SM 644. Communication and Space. (M) Marvin. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nPhysicalized space is said to be crucial to public life.  Perhaps so.  But it is also critical to urbanization, globalization, modernity, mobility, social hierarchy, flow, scale, imperialism (what Said called the geography of violence), revolution, intimacy, shopping malls, simulacra, and being-in-the-world.  Space is not only mediated and dialectical; it is a privileged strategy of post-modernity, \"the everywhere of modern thought.\" So far as media go, the analytic of space implies a shift away from narrative and toward process and practice as ways of structuring experience.  What are the theories that get at this?  How can we use theories of space to think about media and culture, to rediscover the richness of the world?  And what about the explosive iteration of screen culture that logically ought to imperil lived space but seem to offer new modes for grounding it.  We will explore these themes in the relevant literatures for the purpose of developing fabulously interesting research projets, including some in visual format.  No spatial pre- requisites.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "644. Communication and Space. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "645", "description": "SM 645. Children & the Media: Evaluation Techniques. (M) Linebarger. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nWe will explore a variety of evaluation methods used in children's media research including formative evaluation, summative evaluation, and usability/appeal studies.  Time will also be spent discussing the special challenges associated with conducting research with children.  Students will develop formative and summative research plans based on a media product of their choosing.  We will also attempt some pilot data collection to solidify your research plans.  As part of the course, students will help develop additional course materials for each topic.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "645. Children & the Media: Evaluation Techniques. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "660", "description": "SM 660. Content Analysis. (M) Krippendorff. Fulfills ASC Influence or Culture Distribution. \n\nAn introduction to content analysis, the analysis of large bodies of textual matter, also called message systems analysis, quantitative semantics, propaganda analysis, and (computer-aided) text analysis.  The course inquires into the theories, methods, and empirical problems common to these analytical efforts: sampling, text retrieval, coding, reliability, analytical constructs, computational techniques, and abductive inference.  It illustrates these problems by studies of mass media content, interview or panel data, legal research, and efforts to draw inferences from personal documents typical in psychology and literature.  Students design a content analysis and do the preparatory work for an academic or practical research project.  They may also use the opportunity of forging available theories into a new analytical technique and test it with available texts, or solve a methodological problem in content analysis research.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "660. Content Analysis. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "662", "description": "SM 662. Research in Visual Communication. (M) Messaris. Prerequisite(s): COMM 562 or permission of instructor. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nResearch on the structure and effects of visual media.  Movies, video, the web, photography, etc., as objects of analysis and as research tools. Students design and carry out their own projects.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "662. Research in Visual Communication. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "666", "description": "SM 666. Communication and Taboo. (C) Marvin. \n\nTaboo considered as refusing various possibilities for cultural communication and practice.  How the forbidden is conveyed, consented to, imposed or challenged by situated participants.  Topics may include taboo aspects of identity, politics, speech, art, religion, food and bodily practice.  Students may choose from a variety of topics for individual investigation.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "666. Communication and Taboo. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "675", "description": "SM 675. Message Effects. (M) Cappella. Prerequisite(s): COMM 575. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nCurrent research, theory and statistical methods for assessing the effects of messages.  Specific focus on messages designed to have a persuasive effect on attitudes, beliefs, opinions, or behaviors.  Experimental and non-experimental research from mass and interpersonal communication, health, social psychology, advertising, political science and journalism will be considered.  Unintended effects--such as the consequences of violent pornography--are not considered.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "675. Message Effects. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "699", "description": "699. Advanced Project in a Medium. (C) Staff. \n\nProposal written in specified form and approved by both the student's project supervisor and academic advisor must be submitted with registration.  Open only to graduate degree candidates in communication.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "699. Advanced Project in a Medium. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LAW 914, PSCI703)", "num": "703", "description": "SM 703. (LAW 914, PSCI703) International Communication: Power and Flow. (C) Price, M./Katz. Fulfills ASC Institutions Distribution. \n\nThis course will address old and new patterns of communications flow across national and societal borders, taking account of media technologies, mutual perceptions, rhetorical forms, and the balance of power and influence in a globalizing world.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "703. (LAW 914, PSCI703) International Communication: Power and Flow. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "704", "description": "SM 704. Canonic Texts. (C) Katz. Fulfills ASC Influence or Culture Distribution. \n\nCanonic Texts in Media Research: Are there any?  Should there be?  How about these?  Reading for this course centers on 13 essays, each of which nominates a text for \"canonization.\" This course will deal with (1) the original texts and their critiques, (2) the schools which the texts represent, and (3) the debate over canonizing texts in social science.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "704. Canonic Texts. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(LAW 903)", "num": "709", "description": "SM 709. (LAW 903) Media and Sovereignty: Comparative Approaches to Regulation of the Media. (M) Price, M. Fulfills ASC Institutions Distribution. \n\nThis course examines the idea of \"models\" of media regulation.  We look at varying techniques and contexts for shaping media policy.  One focus will be on transformations of public service broadcasting.  Another will be on media in conflict zones.  Another theme will be state responses to the permeability of the Internet (and other new technologies).  Depending on various research activities, there may be a focus on media reform in the Arab Middle East. We'll use my book, Media and Sovereignty, published by MIT in 2003 and materials produced by BBC Monitoring World Media.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "709. (LAW 903) Media and Sovereignty: Comparative Approaches to Regulation of the Media. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(PSCI726)", "num": "726", "description": "SM 726. (PSCI726) Seminar in Political Communication: The Internet and Civic Engagement. (M) Price, V. Fulfills ASC Influence Distribution. \n\nThis seminar explores debates over the potential of the Internet to affect community and political engagement.  The nature and contours of civic participation will be examined from normative, theoretical and empirical perspectives, with a focus on the functions of communication media generally and Internet-related technologies specifically. \n\nStudents in the seminar will canvass available studies, experimental projects and online initiatives, and will undertake original research projects.  Topics addressed include: ways in which Internet-related technologies might be used as tools for citizens to interact, organize, and participate in democratic life; possible psychological and social effects of Internet use, and their implications for civic engagement; connections between civic engagement, social capital, and the Internet; and implications of the Internet for public opinion.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "726. (PSCI726) Seminar in Political Communication: The Internet and Civic Engagement. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "730", "description": "SM 730. Public Space. (M) Katz/Marvin. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nThe object of this course is (1) to identify public spaces, physical and virtual-- past, present, and future; (2) to review the terms of admission and participation in the public sphere, (3) to consider the nature of interaction and influence within these spaces; (4) to relate such participation (and non- participation) to the media of communication; (5) to explore the policy implications of public spaces for participatory democracy.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "730. Public Space. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "750", "description": "SM 750. Seminar in Media Industries. (M) Turow. Prerequisite(s): COMM 550 and/or COMM 530. Fulfills ASC Institutions Distribution. \n\nThis research seminar will center on the processes and social implications of of out-of-home advertising and other forms of marketing communication.  The course encourage students to tackle emerging issues related to any number of traditional or emerging media, including mobile handsets; billboards (digital and traditional); event marketing; event sponsorship; transit materials; and the panoply of in-store marketing vehicles including architecture, packaging, radio, television, computer-laden carts, signage, floor mats, and more. Social issues related to these issues are many; they include privacy, surveillance, industrial constructions of audiences, varieties of redlining , understandings of food and food-culture, and definitions of identity and public-private space.  Marketers say that out-of-home advertising is the fastest growing-form of advertising next to internet advertising.  During the past couple of years, every major media conglomerate has joined the race to track and reach people as they move through the world.  Oddly, communication researchers have virtually ignored this part of our world.  So I think there is here an opportunity here to push a new research agenda.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "750. Seminar in Media Industries. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "760", "description": "SM 760. Social Constructions of Reality. (M) Krippendorff. Fulfills ASC Institutions or Culture Distribution. \n\nThis seminar inquires into the principles and processes by which realities come to be socially constructed and discursively maintained.  It serves as an introduction to the emerging epistemology of communication, which is concerned less with what communication is than with what it does, constitutes, and actively maintains, including when being studied.  The seminar develops analytical tools to understand how realities establish themselves in language and action, how individuals can become entrapped in their own reality constructions, how facts are created and institutions take advantage of denying their constructedness.  After reading several exemplary studies, students explore the nature of a construction on their own.  The seminar draws on the discourse of critical scholarship and emancipatory pursuits, which are allied with feminist writing, cultural studies, and reflexive sociology.  It is committed to dialogical means of inquiry and takes conversation as an ethical premise.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "760. Social Constructions of Reality. (M)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "762", "description": "SM 762. Visual Communication Seminar. Messaris.", "title": "762. Visual Communication Seminar."}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "766", "description": "SM 766. Symbolic Aspects of Communication. (M) Marvin. Fulfills ASC Culture Distribution. \n\nTopics in symbolic communication at the macro-cultural level.  Past topics have addressed nationalism, bodies and texts as distinctive but interacting symbolic modes within non-traditional cultures, ritual symbolism.  These or other topics may be offered.  Check with instructor.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "766. Symbolic Aspects of Communication. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "799", "description": "799. Independent Research. (C) Staff. \n\nProposal written in specified form and approved by both the student's project supervisor and academic advisor or another member of the faculty must be submitted with registration.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "799. Independent Research. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "995", "description": "995. Dissertation. (C) Staff. \n\nDoctoral candidates, who have completed all course requirements and have an approved dissertation proposal, work on their dissertation under the guidance of their dissertation supervisor and other members of their dissertation committee.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "995. Dissertation. (C) "}]