[null, null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SOCI233)", "num": "100", "description": "100. (SOCI233) Criminology. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Adler, Laufer, Sherman. \n\nThis introductory course examines the multi-disciplinary science of law-making, law-breaking, and law-enforcing.  It reviews theories and data predicting where, when, by whom and against whom crimes happen.  It also addresses the prevention of different offense types by different kinds of offenders against different kinds of people.  Police, courts, prisons, and other institutions are critically examined as both preventing and causing crime.  This course meets the general distribution requirement.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "100. (SOCI233) Criminology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "150", "description": "150. Evidence-Based Crime and Justice Policy. (M) Berk. \n\nStatistical techniques and quantitative reasoing are essential tools for properly examining crime and justice policy. \n\nUsing case studies of highly controversial issues, appropriate statistical techniques and sound quantitative reasoning are addressed.  Case studies can include the death penalty, racial profiling, human trafficking, DNA identification, sentencing guidelines, drug testing, war crimes, ballistic analyses from the JFK assassination, and others.  The statistical procedures discussed overlap significantly with those covered in an introductory statistics course. Criminology 150 has been approved for the quantitative data analysis requirement (QDA).\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "150. Evidence-Based Crime and Justice Policy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SOCI200)", "num": "200", "description": "200. (SOCI200) Criminal Justice. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Sherman, MacDonald. \n\nThis course examines the social sciences research evidence on the causes and consequences of criminal justice decisions for different kins of people, including race, class, gender and age: searches, arrests and shootings by police, prosecutions and plea-bargaining in court, sentencing by judges and by legislative guidelines, probation and parole supervision, and daily regulation of life in prison.  Central to the course is the understanding of how we know what we know about criminal justice: observational methods used to describe and predict these decisions, and experimental methods used to compare the effects of different courses of action.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "200. (SOCI200) Criminal Justice. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(SOCI380)", "num": "280", "description": "SM 280. (SOCI380) Neighborhood Dynamics of Crime. (B) MacDonald. \n\nCrime varies in time, space and populations as it reflects ecological structures and the routine social interactions that occur in daily life. Concentrations of crime can be found among locations, with antisocial activities like assaults and theft occurring at higher rates because of the demographic make-up of people (e.g. adolescents) or conflicts (e.g. competing gangs), for reasons examined by ecological criminology.  Variation in socio-demographic structures (age, education ratios, and the concentration of poverty) and the the physical environment (housing segregation, density of bars, street lighting) predicts variations between neighborhoods in the level of crime and disorder.  Both ethnographic and quantitative research methods are used to explore the connections between the social and physical environment of areas and antisocial behavior.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "280. (SOCI380) Neighborhood Dynamics of Crime. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CRIM610, SOCI410)", "num": "410", "description": "SM 410. (CRIM610, SOCI410) Research Seminar in Experiments in Restorative Justice. (C) Strang. Prerequisite(s): Any statistics or research methods courses leading to knowledge of SPSS. \n\nThis seminar focuses on examining data from Penn's Jerry Lee Program of Randomized Controlled Trials in Restorative Justice, the largest program of field experiments in the history of criminology.  Key questions to be answered by the research program include the effects of restorative conferences on the future crime rates of offenders and victims, on the mental health and medical condition of both, and on the changes over time in these dimensions of the life course of both victims and offenders.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "410. (CRIM610, SOCI410) Research Seminar in Experiments in Restorative Justice. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(CRIM611, SOCI411)", "num": "411", "description": "SM 411. (CRIM611, SOCI411) Field Observations in Criminal Courts. (A) Staff. \n\nThe course will serve as an introduction both to qualitative research and to understanding of the routine workings of the courts in Philadelphia.  After a brief dicussion of the theoretical underpinnings and practical techniques of ethnography, students will undertake supervised field projects leading to the writing of 5000 words long research report about different aspects of the social organization of the courthouse and court room.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "411. (CRIM611, SOCI411) Field Observations in Criminal Courts. (A)"}, null, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(SOCI680)", "num": "600", "description": "SM 600. (SOCI680) Pro-Seminar in Criminology. (A) Staff. \n\nThis course explores the basic scope, mission and methods of the science of criminology.  The course proceeds to cover the current state of theory, research, and accomplishments in both knowledge and policy about criminality and criminal events.  Students will read widely and report to the seminar on their readings, as well as assessing key readings and central ideas for their potential guidance of future research.  The course focuses primarily on criminology of criminal events, including law-making and law-braking.  The criminology of reactions to crime is covered in the second semester pro-seminar in criminal justice, CRIM 601.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "600. (SOCI680) Pro-Seminar in Criminology. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(SOCI681)", "num": "601", "description": "SM 601. (SOCI681) Pro-Seminar in Criminal Justice. (B) Staff. Prerequisite(s): CRIM 600. \n\nA wide-ranging introduction to theory and research on responses to crime under the rubric of criminal law.  Theories of deterrence, procedural justice, reintegrative shaming, defiance and other interactions between legal sanctions and legal conduct will be examined in light of the most recent research. Issues of discrimination, disparity, and fairness in the operation of criminal law will be considered with evidence from around the world.  Patterns, causes, and consequences of legal sanctioning patterns will be systematically documented, and major gaps in knowledge will be identified.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "601. (SOCI681) Pro-Seminar in Criminal Justice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "602", "description": "602. Evidence-Based Sentencing. (A) Strang. \n\nThis course examines the application of social science research to the process of sentencing convicted criminals.  The course begins by reviewing the varieties of sentencing systems, emphasizing the range of sentencing guidelines frameworks within the US and Common Law nations.  It then describes how these principles work in practice, in the actions and perspectives of prosecution, defense counsel, pre-sentence investigations by probation services, and judicial rulings.  The course then considers the research evidence for the relative effectiveness of different kinds of sentencing and rehabilitation programs, with emphasis on direct comparisons of prison versus community-based corrections.  The concept of an \"evidence-based sentence plan\" is then developed, and each student is assigned the task of writing such a plan based on a particular combination of prior criminal record and current offense.  Each student will present the plan in a mock courtroom, with direct examination by a defense counsel and cross-examination by a prosecutor.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "602. Evidence-Based Sentencing. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "603", "description": "SM 603. Research Methods/Crime Analysis Project. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course provides an overview of social science research methods employed by criminologists in public agencies, with an emphasis on diagnostic and analytic tools, experimental design and quasi-experimental evaluation methods. In lieu of a Masters thesis, M.S. students pursue a semester-long project, using crime analysis and research skills (along with tools such as crime mapping) to address a specific crime problem.  Student projects culminate with an oral presentation before the class, as well as submission of a written product.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "603. Research Methods/Crime Analysis Project. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "604", "description": "SM 604. Criminology in Practice. (E) Robinson. \n\nThis weekly seminar explores how criminal justice professionals can bring research-based approaches into crime- related policy and practice.  Current and former government policymakers and criminal justice system practitioners regularly visit the class as guest lecturers and to engage in disussions with students.  This is a \"capstone\" course spread across both semesters and taught by the M.S.  Program Director.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "604. Criminology in Practice. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CRIM400, CRIM415, PUBH534)", "num": "615", "description": "615. (CRIM400, CRIM415, PUBH534) Fatal Violence in the United States. (B) Sorenson. \n\nThe purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of patterns of fatal violence in the United States and population approaches to violence and violence prevention.  The course will focus on policies and regulations related to the manufacture and use of the primary mechanism by which the fatalities occur, that is, firearms, as well as the central aspects of the social context in which firearms exist and within which firearm policy is made.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "615. (CRIM400, CRIM415, PUBH534) Fatal Violence in the United States. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "634", "description": "634. Evidence-Based Crime Prevention. (A) Sherman. \n\nThis course examines the use of evidence in the practice of crime prevention. Uses include the diagnosis of crime patterns and problems, research on how to rereduce crime, implementation of crime preventation policies, value-added estimates of policy effects, evaluation of cost-effectiveness, and revision of policies, all integrated into the DRIVER model of evidence-based practice. Primary emphasis is placed on scientific methods and results to date of field tests of the effects of policies intended to prevent crime.  Policies are examined in nine field settings: communities, families, schools, labor markets, places, police departments, courts, incarceration, and community supervision.  Central methodological issues include research designs and their execution, systematic reviews and meta-analysis, and internal and external validity of program effects.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "634. Evidence-Based Crime Prevention. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "650", "description": "SM 650. Inductive Statistical Methods from Exploratory Data Analysis to Statistical Learning. (B) Berk. \n\nData analysis has always had a significant exploratory component.  Often exploratory work is undertaken as a clandestine activity not to be discussed in polite company.  But beginning with the work of John Tukey, Frederick Mosteller, and others, exploratory data analysis was explicitly recognized and given more structure.  Recent theoretical advances in statistics and computer science coupled with dramatic increases in computer power have led to \"muscle car\" versions of exploratory data analysis carrying such labels as statistical learning or machine learning.  In this course, a number of these new procedures will be considered: bagging, boosting, support vector machines, random forests and others.  Some theory will be discussed, but much of the emphasis will be on practical applications with real data.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "650. Inductive Statistical Methods from Exploratory Data Analysis to Statistical Learning. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(SOCI700)", "num": "700", "description": "SM 700. (SOCI700) Advanced Pro-Seminar in Criminology. (A) Staff. \n\nThis second year doctoral course is a weekly discussion group designed to help students intergrate their coursework from different disciplines around the unifying perspectives of criminology.  It focuses on preparation for the doctoral comprehensive examination, detailed critiques of published research reports, and colloquia by leading guest lecturers presenting new research results.  Students preparing for dissertatio research on the causes and prevention of crime will report on their developing research ideas.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "700. (SOCI700) Advanced Pro-Seminar in Criminology. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "701", "description": "SM 701. Advanced Pro-Seminar in Criminal Justice. (B) Staff. \n\nThis second year doctoral course is a weekly discussion group designed to help students intergrate their coursework from different disciplines around the behavior and operation of criminal law systems.  It focuses on preparation for the doctoral comprhensive examination, detailed critiques of published and unpublished research reports, and colloquia by leading guest lecturers presenting new research results.  Students preparing for dissertation research on the behavior of criminal law will report on their developing research ideas.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "701. Advanced Pro-Seminar in Criminal Justice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "800", "description": "800. Thesis Research Project. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "800. Thesis Research Project. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "999", "description": "999. Independent Study and Research. (C) Both terms. \n\nPrimarily for advanced students who work with individual faculty upon permission.  Intended to go beyond existing graduate courses in the study of specific problems or theories or to provide work opportunities in areas not covered by existing courses.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "999. Independent Study and Research. (C) "}]