[null, null, null, null, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(JWST200)", "num": "200", "description": "200. (JWST200) Teaching Jewish Texts. (M) Staff.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "200. (JWST200) Teaching Jewish Texts. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(URBS202)", "num": "202", "description": "SM 202. (URBS202) Urban Education. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course focuses on various perspectives on urban education, conditions for teaching and learning in urban public schools, current theories of pedagogy in urban classrooms along with a close examination of a few representative and critical issues.  While our focus is on schools in the United States, we will broaden our discussion at times to examine the same issues from an international perspective.  The course is designed around the following themes (1) perspectives on urban education, (2) the broader urban context of K-12 schooling, (3) teaching and learning in urban settings, and (4) responses to the persistent challenges in urban schools.  These themes should provide multiple lenses with which to explore the complexities of urban education. Major theoretical perspectives on schooling and various proposals by resarchers and policymakers that address particular challenges in urban education will also be addressed.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "202. (URBS202) Urban Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(GSOC235)", "num": "235", "description": "235. (GSOC235) Psychology of Women. (C) Staff. \n\nCritical analyses of the psychological theories of female development, and introduction to feminist scholarship on gender development and sexuality.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "235. (GSOC235) Psychology of Women. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(AMCV240, URBS240)", "num": "240", "description": "240. (AMCV240, URBS240) Education in American Culture. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course explores the relationships between forms of cultural production and transmission (schooling, family and community socialization, peer group subcultures and media representations) and relations of inequality in American society.  Working with a broad definition of \"education\" as varied forms of social learning, we will concentrate particularly on the cultural processes that produce as well as potentially transform class, race, ethnic and gender differences and identities.  From this vantage point, we will then consider the role that schools can and/or should play in challenging inequalities in America.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "240. (AMCV240, URBS240) Education in American Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "241", "description": "241. Educational Psychology. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Introduction to Psych or equivalent. \n\nCurrent issues and research, stressing implications for educational practice. Topics include: behavioral analysis, methods, curriculum objectives, intelligence tests, headstart programs, etc.  Field experience in schools is often included.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "241. Educational Psychology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "250", "description": "250. Learning from Children. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course is about looking at elementary school classrooms and understanding children's experiences of school from a variety of perspectives, and from a variety of theoretical and methodological lenses from which the student can interpret children's educational experiences.  This course is about developing the skills of observation, reflection, and analysis and to begin to examine some implications for curriculum, teaching and schooling.  This course requires you to spend time in an elementary school classroom.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "250. Learning from Children. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(URBS323)", "num": "323", "description": "SM 323. (URBS323) Tutoring School: Theory and Practice. (A) Staff. \n\nThis course represents an opportunity for students to participate in academically-based community service involving tutoring in a West Phila. public school.  This course will serve a need for those students who are already tutoring through the West Phila.Tutoring Project or other campus tutoring.  It will also be available to individuals who are interested in tutoring for the first time.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "323. (URBS323) Tutoring School: Theory and Practice. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(GSOC344)", "num": "345", "description": "345. (GSOC344) Psychology of Personal Growth. (C) Staff. \n\nIntellectual, emotional and behavioral development in the college years. Illustrative topics: developing intellectual and social competence; developing personal and career goals; managing interpersonal relationships; values and behavior. \n\nRecommended for submatriculation in Psychological Services Master's Degree program.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "345. (GSOC344) Psychology of Personal Growth. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "360", "description": "360. Human Development. (C) Staff. \n\nA life-span (infancy to adulthood) approach to development.  Topics include: biological, physical, social and cognitive basis of development.  Films and guest speakers are often included.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "360. Human Development. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "414", "description": "414. Children's Literature. (A) Staff. \n\nTheoretical and practical aspects of the study of literature for children. Students develop both wide familiarity with children's books, and understanding of how children's literature fits into the elementary school curriculum.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "414. Children's Literature. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "417", "description": "417. Reading/Language Arts in the Elementary School. (A) Prerequisite(s): EDUC 316, 317. Corequisite(s): EDUC 419, 420. This course is open only to students officially admitted to the program for preparation of elementary school teachers. \n\nSecond of a two-part course (see EDUC 317).  The course focuses on the reading process, using literature in the reading curriculum, language and cultural difference in the classroom, and evaluating reading/language arts programs and progress.  Students design and carry out reading lessons and units, conduct informal reading assessments, and participate in in-class seminars.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "417. Reading/Language Arts in the Elementary School. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "418", "description": "418. Teaching and Learning Mathematics in Elementary Schools. (A) Staff. \n\nStudents participating in this course will explore definitions of mathematics, theories of children's mathematical learning, and issues of reform in mathematics education through consideration of relevant content areas such as numeration, rational number operations, geometry, and probability and statistics.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "418. Teaching and Learning Mathematics in Elementary Schools. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ENVS421)", "num": "421", "description": "421. (ENVS421) Science in Elementary and Middle Schools. (B) Staff. \n\nAn intensive approach to current methods, curricula, and trends in teaching science as basic learning, K-8.  \"Hands-on\" activities based on cogent, current philosophical and psychological theories including: S/T/S and gender issues.  Focus on skill development in critical thinking.  Content areas: living things, the physical universe, and interacting ecosystems.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "421. (ENVS421) Science in Elementary and Middle Schools. (B)"}, null, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(HIST463)", "num": "463", "description": "463. (HIST463) The History of American Education. (B) Katz. \n\nThis course is a survey of the relationships between education and the history of American society.  The emphasis will be on social history: the interrelations between education and social structure, demography, economic development, family patterns, reform movements, and other institutions.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "463. (HIST463) The History of American Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "501", "description": "SM 501. Community Partnerships in Visual Arts & Education. Epstein. \n\nThis course will connect students with artists from the 40th Street Artist-in-Residence (AIR) program, which provides free studio space and in exchange asks residents to share their talents with the local community.  This course is designated as an Academic-based Service Learning (ABCS) class, meaning that students will be evaluated partly on their work in the community outreach situation.", "title": "501. Community Partnerships in Visual Arts & Education."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(URBS546)", "num": "503", "description": "SM 503. (URBS546) Global Citizenship. (B) Hall. \n\nThis course examines the possibilities and limitations of conceiving of and realizing citizenship on a global scale. \n\nReadings, guest lecturers, and discussions will focus on dilemmas associated with addressing issues that transcend national boundaries.  In particular, the course compares global/local dynamics that emerge across different types of improvement efforts focusing on distinctive institutions and social domains, including: educational development; human rights; humanitarian aid; free trade; micro-finance initiatives; and the global environmental movement.  The course has two objectives: to explore research and theoretical work related to global citizenship, social engagement, and international development; and to discuss ethical and practical issues that emerge in the local contexts where development initiatives are implemented.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "503. (URBS546) Global Citizenship. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "508", "description": "508. Managing People. (C) Dwyer. \n\nProfessionals in organizations spend much, and often all of their time, attempting to influence others--subordinates, peers, superiors, clients, boards, owners, regulators, pressure groups, media and others.  This course presents an approach to human influence, based on the relationships among values, perceptions, and behaviors.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "508. Managing People. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "509", "description": "SM 509. Liberalism & Multiculturalism -- Theory & Policy. (C) Ben-Porath. \n\nThis course is aimed at positioning education at the heart of the political-philosophical question of justice.  The aim to gain an understanding of the core issues we face when constructing policies to advance equity, choice, and access and other just causes.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "509. Liberalism & Multiculturalism -- Theory & Policy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "510", "description": "510. Managing People in Education. (B) Dwyer. \n\nThis course is similar in content to 508, Managing People, but it emphasizes educational organizations.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "510. Managing People in Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "511", "description": "SM 511. Equality. (C) Ben-Porath. \n\n'All men (or all humans) are created equal': What does this statement mean? What are we all equal in?  What should we be equal in?  Do we have equal potential, equal dignity, equal worth?  Must we have equal resources, equal opportunities, equal status?  In this class we will consider philosophical and political approaches to the idea of equality. \n\nThe education system's ability and commitment to respond to claims of equality will be discussed.  Must we treat all children the same?  Or each child differently?  And if the latter, how does that constitute equality?  Moreover, must we treat individuals or groups equally?  Educational and philosophical answers to these questions will be the focus of this seminar.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "511. Equality. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "513", "description": "513. Development of the Young Child. (D) Goodman. \n\nThis course will blend an explanatory and descriptive account of behavioral evolution over the yearly years of life. \n\nAfter a review of \"grand\" developmental theory and the major themes of child change (from images to representation; from dependence to independence; from instinctual to social beings), this course will survey the child's passage from infancy through the early school years.  While the emphasis will be on the nature of the child--what she/he sees, feels, thinks, fantasizes, wants and loves--these realities will be understood in terms of developmental theory.  At each stage, the course will review the development of cognition, personal identity, socialization, and morality in pluralistic contexts.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "513. Development of the Young Child. (D)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "515", "description": "515. Field Seminar (Elementary & Secondary Education). Staff. \n\nThis seminar is designed to integrate student teaching fieldwork and university course work through reading, discussion, and reflection.  Central to this course will be teacher research, an inquiry stance toward learning how to teach, and a social justice approach to education.  Throughout the semester, we will be examining a range of issues through theoretical and practice-oriented lenses that will deepen our understanding of teaching and learning.", "title": "515. Field Seminar (Elementary & Secondary Education)."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "518", "description": "518. Authority, Freedom, and Disciplinary Policies. (B) Goodman. \n\nThe course concentrates on the nature and justification of discipline.  In particular, we focus on how discipline becomes the expression of twin but conflicting premises of education: that children should be encouraged to develop their critical intellectual capacities and autonomous decision-making -- read freedom; that these ends cannot be achieved without the direction and control of teachers -- read authority. \n\n Students read classical works on freedom and authority (John Stuart Mill, Isaiah Berlin, Emile Durkheim, John Dewey, C.S.Lewis) as well as more contemporary ones.  In class we look at video clips of different practices and discuss readings.  Every student selects one type of disciplinary approach to study in detail, inclusive of on-site visits. \n\nThe seminar paper covers the source and nature of the school's commitments, its theory of authority and freedom (implicit and explicit), illustrations of how commitments are expressed (including discipline practices), and the student's reflections.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "518. Authority, Freedom, and Disciplinary Policies. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "520", "description": "520. Literacy in Elementary/Middle Schools. Schultz. \n\nIn this course, the interconnections of language, literacy and culture are explored in order to build a knowledge base and understanding of how children learn to read and write.  Emphasis will be on how to teach and develop literacy curriculum in the elementary grades, and on how close listening and observation of children in their classroom contexts, combined with a critical reading of research and theory, can inform teaching practices.  A central tenet of this course is that the best teachers of reading and writing are themselves active and engaged readers and writers.  An important goal is to combine an inquiry approach to teaching and learning with an inquiry approach to thinking about how we teach.", "title": "520. Literacy in Elementary/Middle Schools."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "521", "description": "521. Science in Elementary/Middle Schools. Bergey. \n\nThe goal of this course is to prepare teachers to facilitate science learning in the elementary and middle school.  Special emphasis is placed on striving for a balance between curricular goals; individual needs and interests; and the nature of science.", "title": "521. Science in Elementary/Middle Schools."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "523", "description": "523. Social Studies in the Elementary and Middle Schools. Staff. \n\nThis course will focus on teaching and learning in the content area of social studies.  Curricular and pedagogical theories and practices will be examined for their educational significance, meaningful integration of content areas, respect for students' cultures (past and present), and contribution to social justice issues.", "title": "523. Social Studies in the Elementary and Middle Schools."}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "524", "description": "SM 524. Philosophical Aspects of Education Policy. (C) Ben-Porath. \n\nThis course, which is unofficially titled 'Justice goes to School' explores the philosophical or normative foundations of educational policy decisions. School choice, standards-based reform, civic education, children's and parents' rights, school finance reform - how do different arguments for these policies view the role of schools in society?  What are their concept of the person, and their view of the educated person?  We will consider arguments for and against a variety of contemporary educational policies.  Students are encouraged, if they are interested, to bring to class educational policy decision that perplex or intrigue them.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "524. Philosophical Aspects of Education Policy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "529", "description": "529. Organizational Learning and Education. (B) Supovitz. \n\nThis course is an exploration of the theory, research, and practice of how individuals learn within organizational contexts and how organizations themselves may learn, as well as the social, cultural, and organizational forces that influence this process.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "529. Organizational Learning and Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "531", "description": "531. Mathematics in the Elementary and Middle Schools. Remillard. \n\nLearning to teach mathematics in ways that foster mathematical understanding and enjoyment for every student requires that teachers draw on different kinds of knowledge, skills, and dispositions.  In addition to developing an understanding of central mathematical ideas, learning to teach math involves learning about learners, the understandings and conceptions they hold, and the processes through which they learn.  It also involves developing skill in constructing tasks that engage students in mathematical exploration, creating an environment that facilitates reasoning, and finding ways to analyze and learn from one's own teaching.", "title": "531. Mathematics in the Elementary and Middle Schools."}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "532", "description": "532. School Law. (L) staff. \n\nThis course examines federal and state court cases, statues and regulations which affect students, teachers, administrators and other community members involved with schools.  There is a special emphasis on developing conflict resolution techniques, including negotiation and mediation, so that legally based disputes are resolved by building relationships rather than adversarial methods, such as litigation.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "532. School Law. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "536", "description": "L/R 536. The Teaching & Learning of Chemistry. (E) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Undergrad major or minor in Science. \n\nThis course will examine issues associated with curriculum planning and enactment.  In addition, the teachers will learn how to undertake action research in their own classrooms so that they can learn from their professional practices.  The key topics to be addressed in this introductory course will include: national, state and local standards; curricular resources; models for learning chemistry; social constructivism and communities of practice; safety, equipment and storage; equity and culturally relevant pedagogy; building canonical ideas from laboratories and demonstrations; understanding chemistry at macroscopic, microscopic and symbolic levels; social interaction; analogues, models and concepts maps; uses of interactive technologies to promote understanding of chemistry; connecting chemistry to science and technology; alternative assessment of learning; involving the home and community in the learning of chemistry; international perspectives on the teaching and learning of chemistry in urban areas.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "536. The Teaching & Learning of Chemistry. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "544", "description": "544. School and Society in America. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course reviews the major empirical and theoretical research from the social history, and social theory on the development, organization and governance of American education, and the relationship between schooling and the principal institutions and social structures of American society.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "544. School and Society in America. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(AFRC547, ANTH547, FOLK527, URBS547)", "num": "547", "description": "547. (AFRC547, ANTH547, FOLK527, URBS547) Anthropology and Education. (C) Staff. \n\nAn introduction to the intent, approach, and contribution of anthropology to the study of socialization and schooling in cross-cultural perspective. Education is examined in traditional, colonial, and complex industrial societies.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "547. (AFRC547, ANTH547, FOLK527, URBS547) Anthropology and Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "550", "description": "550. Educational and Social Entrepreneurship. Staff. \n\nThis course provides an understanding of the nature of entrepreneurship related to public/private/for profit and non- profit educational and social organizations.  The course focuses on issues of management, strategies and financing of early stage entrepreneurial ventures, and on entrepreneurship in established educational organizations.", "title": "550. Educational and Social Entrepreneurship."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "552", "description": "552. Intellectual Foundations. Staff. \n\nThis course examines the fundamental normative assumptions and commitments that have shaped American education since the 18th century.  While the content will change from semester to semester, in general, the course will focus on two issues: the nature of a democratic society and its institutional arrangements; and the demands of justice.", "title": "552. Intellectual Foundations."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "554", "description": "554. Teaching & Learning in Urban Contexts. Staff. \n\nThis course marks the beginnings of your year-long inquiry as preservice teachers, and hopefully your career-long inquiry as committed educational professionals, into the challenges of and opportunities for teaching and learning in urban settings.  The theories and practices explored in this course are offered as foundations for instructional approaches that are intentional, reflective, inquiry-based,and learner-centered.  As we investigate multiple dimensions of teaching and learning (curriculum design, learning theories, instructional techniques, etc.), you will have opportunities to both clarify and challenge the assumptions, beliefs, hopes, fears, and goals that you bring to your preapration to teach in urban secondary schools.", "title": "554. Teaching & Learning in Urban Contexts."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "555", "description": "555. Advanced Field Seminar (Elementary & Secondary Education). \n\nThis course focuses on praxis--the mutually supporting roles of theory and practice that bring rigor and relevance to the work of educational professionals.  This course is designed to give student teachers opportunities to develop pedagogical orientations, to learn from \"problems of practice\" at placement sites, and to enrich student teachers' theoretical and practical knowledge.  All of these experiences will inform the master's portfolio and will prepare teachers to continue to see themselves and their practice as continuing sites for research.", "title": "555. Advanced Field Seminar (Elementary & Secondary Education)."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "564", "description": "564. Moral Values and the Schools. (B) Goodman. \n\nThis course explores whether, and if so, how \"values\" should be taught in the schools by addressing the following questions: What is unique about the domain of values?  Is there, or should there be, a corpus of shared personal and social values?  What are the sources of values and how are they transmitted across generations?  If schools teach values, how do they address the problems associated with specific codes?  The problems of the absence of codes?  The tensions between fidelity to personal beliefs and to values of compromise, tolerance and cultural pluralism?\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "564. Moral Values and the Schools. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(PHIL249, GSOC249)", "num": "576", "description": "576. (PHIL249, GSOC249) The Social & Political Philosophy of Education. (A) Detlefsen, K. \n\nIs the purpose of education to allow individuals to better themselves by pursuing personal tastes and interests, or should education be primarily aimed at creating good citizens or good members of a group?  Is there a way of reconciling these two aims?  Assuming that adult relations with children are inherently paternalistic, is it possible for children to be educated for future autonomy to pursue major life goals free from such paternalistic control; and if so, how?  How much, if any control over education can be allocated to the state, even when this conflicts with the educational goals parents have for their children?  Such questions are especially relevant in multicultural or pluralistic societies in which some groups within a liberal state are non-liberal.  Should a liberal democratic state intervene in education to ensure the development of children's personal autonomy, or must toleration of non-liberal groups prevail even at the expense of children's autonomy?\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "576. (PHIL249, GSOC249) The Social & Political Philosophy of Education. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(GSOC590)", "num": "590", "description": "590. (GSOC590) Gender & Education (ELD). (B) Kuriloff. \n\nThis course is designed to provide an overview of the major discussions and debates in the area of gender and education.  While the intersections of gender, race, class, ethnicity, and sexuality are emphasized throughout this course, the focus of the research we will read is on gender and education in English-speaking countries.  We will examine theoretical frameworks of gender and use these to read popular literature, examine teaching practices and teachers with respect to gender, using case studies to investigate the topics.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "590. (GSOC590) Gender & Education (ELD). (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH606)", "num": "602", "description": "602. (ANTH606) Youth Cultural Formations. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course explores anthropological perspectives on peer-based youth cultures.  It explores how educational institutions, media (fashion, music, magazines), and states shape youth cultures in cross-cultural contexts through social processes such as capitalism, nationalism, and increasing globalization.  The course emphasizes ethnographies and histories which explore the relationship of these wider social processes to the lived realities of young people, situated in class, gender, national and race-specific contexts.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "602. (ANTH606) Youth Cultural Formations. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "603", "description": "SM 603. Methods of Teaching Talmud & Rabbinics. (L) Staff. \n\nThis course is designed to provide opportunities to develop critical thinking skills and pedagogic approaches to teaching Jewish texts, and in particular to teaching Talmud, through investigation of practice, inquiry and research in the teaching and learning of Talmud.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "603. Methods of Teaching Talmud & Rabbinics. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "605", "description": "SM 605. Sustainability in Schools. (B) Ball. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis course looks at the issue of sustainability across three dimensions: financial,environmental and programmatic.  1. \n\nThe issue of financial sustainability focuses on the need of schools to carefully manage funding sources and expenditures and raise supplemental dollars to underwrite aspects of the mission of the school.  Included in this focus will be the topics of marketing, communications, and development.  2.  Environmental sustainability is increasingly emphasized by schools as an educational goal and an operating principal.  This topic will include incorporating sustainability practices into school wide decision making to build campuses which are increasingly green and less wasteful.  3.  The third and final focus of the course, programmatic sustainability, brings together many of the themes of the entire leadership program as it reviews the ways schools must think about new models of educating children including the implications of such issues as emerging research on learning, environmental sustainability, globalization, and equity and access.  The course utilizes the conceptual framework for sustainability developed by the National Association of Independent Schools.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "605. Sustainability in Schools. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "609", "description": "609. Counseling for Educators. (B) Kuriloff. \n\nThe purpose of this course is to help professional educators develop an understanding of the major issues involved in trying to help others.  To accomplish this, it examines various counseling theories and explores their relevance for working with students and parents as they confront normal issues of learning and development.  Through observation, skill building, and practice in natural settings, students will have the opportunity to develop their own grounded theory of helping.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "609. Counseling for Educators. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "611", "description": "611. Education, Development, and Globalization. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course will explore contemporary issues in international education.  The emphasis will be on exploring an emergent body of literature on contemporary processes of globalization in the field of education.  The course has a double goal: 1) to provide theoretical frameworks and historical perspectives in order to develop an adequate understanding of 'globalization', and 2) to explore the relevance and impact of globalization as a framework for understanding educational processes in comparative and international contexts.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "611. Education, Development, and Globalization. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "616", "description": "616. Master's Foundations of Teaching and Learning. (A) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor. \n\nThe course explores theoretical and empirical perspectives on the questions: What is knowledge and knowing?  What is learning?  What is teaching?  How do contexts influence teaching, knowing, and learning?  A central goal of the course is to encourage students to consider these questions and their interconnections for themselves, to examine ways scholars and practitioners have answered them, and to develop an analytical framework to use in examining contemporary practices in settings that include formal and informal, urban and international.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "616. Master's Foundations of Teaching and Learning. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "618", "description": "618. Leadership in Educational Institutions. (B) Lytle, J. \n\nIn this course class members will simultaneously engage in an academic study of educational leadership focusing on Pre-K-12 schools and school districts, and in a continuing leadership development laboratory experience designed to increase one's personal efficacy as leader.  A basic assumption for the course is that leadership is a central component of schooling; teaching is considered as foremost a leadership activity, whether with five year olds or high school seniors, and successful schools and districts are assumed to have capable leaders.  The course will give particular attention to the recent shift in role expectations for school leaders - from competent manager to accountable instructional leader - and what this shift means in relation to the day-to-day work of educational leaders.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "618. Leadership in Educational Institutions. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(URBS619)", "num": "619", "description": "619. (URBS619) Critical Perspectives in Contemporary Urban Education. Schultz. \n\nThe focus of this course is the conditions for teaching and learning in urban public schools, current theories of pedagogy in urban education, and perspectives on urban reform efforts.", "title": "619. (URBS619) Critical Perspectives in Contemporary Urban Education."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "620", "description": "620. Research on Teacher Education & Learning to Teach. (A) Schultz. \n\nIn this course, we examine issues of research and practice in teacher education from several different subject locations including the perspectives of teachers, researchers, teacher educators, and policymakers.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "620. Research on Teacher Education & Learning to Teach. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "621", "description": "621. Proseminar in Professional Education. (C) Staff. \n\nAn integrative seminar that will provide an opportunity to reflect, orally and in writing, on the issues of quality, stability, and change in teaching, curriculum and school organization, toward the aim of fundamental reform in educational practice.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "621. Proseminar in Professional Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "627", "description": "627. Teaching in the Middle and Secondary Schools. Staff. \n\nContent-specific sections of this course will examine approaches in planning, implementing and evaluating methods for teaching science, mathematics and social studies in middle and secondary schools.  This course is grounded in the belief that teaching and learning require educators to question our teaching purposes and practices through a process of self-reflection, self-evaluation, collegial and student-teacher interactions as well as personal and professional growth. \n\nUsing a variety of learning theories and perspectives as the foundation for interactive teaching strategies, the stories, questions and contradictions of each content area are examined from a variety of perspectives.", "title": "627. Teaching in the Middle and Secondary Schools."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "630", "description": "630. Curriculum Theory & Foundations. Staff. \n\nHelps students understand the ways that theory can inform and guide practice. It explores how curriculum theories can lead to the development of richer, more effective curricular models.  Placing emerging, as well as extant theories within their social/political contexts, this course enables educators to apply multiple lenses for examining, choosing and constructing theories and frameworks suitable to their fields.", "title": "630. Curriculum Theory & Foundations."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "632", "description": "SM 632. Leadership in Independent, Public and Parochial Schools. Ball, E. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThe challenges of leadership in both independent and parochial schools are important to consider as part of the broader discussion of educational leadership in elementary and secondary education.  The course will identify themes that have implications for both private and public schools and will seek to establish interconnections.  This course will examine the history and social foundations of independent and parochial education, and will consider issues of leadership that involve working with the various constituencies within schools including board members, faculty, parents, alumni and students. This course will conclude with a consideration of the relationship of independent and parochial schools to public purpose and the overall goals of education within the contemporary society.", "title": "632. Leadership in Independent, Public and Parochial Schools."}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "636", "description": "L/R 636. Advanced Topics in the Teaching & Learning of Chemistry. (E) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Major or minor in Science. \n\nThe course will feature research undertaken in the classes of participants. The initial course was designed to examine what was happening and to build understandings about why the teaching and learning of chemistry occurred as it did within the participants' schools, clusters and school districts.  This course is intended to develop a cadre of teacher leaders in chemistry.  The curriculum will address the particular needs of the students and the standards of the school district.  The goal is to implement a curriculum that will lead to substantial improvement in the achievement of high school students.  The students will identify from the literature the best practices that are likely to be salient in the conditions in which they teach and adopt these in an effort to attain rigorous standards.  They will explore their roles within the school and district as agents of systemic reform and will endeavor to build a local community to sustain high quality teaching and learning.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "636. Advanced Topics in the Teaching & Learning of Chemistry. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "638", "description": "638. The American High School. (B) Puckett. \n\nThis course looks at the role, organization and development of the American high school throughout the twentieth century.  The contemporary structure and function of the high school is a continuous focus for analysis and comparison.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "638. The American High School. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "639", "description": "639. Design of Learning Environments. Staff. \n\nThis course examines different theoretical frames and strategies related to the study and design of learning environments in school, community and online contexts.  Physical, social and cognitive aspects of learning situations are considered as students critique and later design a learning environment for a real-world context.", "title": "639. Design of Learning Environments."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "643", "description": "643. Instructional Leadership to Promote Learning. (A) Brody, Dawson, Mata and Ball. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis first course of the School Leadership Program for Aspiring Principals and the Independent School Leadership Program begins with an exploration of values and beliefs underlying leadership in schools.  Students examine the knowledge, dispositions and performances needed for the continuous improvement of K-12 instruction indicated in the Pennsylvania Standards for School Leaders, ISLLC, as well as those identified in Balanced Leadership (2003), and other research. Participants study current research in learning, teaching and assessment by focusing on student achievement in K-12 literacy and social studies.  Students explore how effective school leaders connect theory to practice and provide leadership for school reform in these two curricular areas.  Coursework includes interactive case studies, team projects, panel presentations and guest speakers.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "643. Instructional Leadership to Promote Learning. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "644", "description": "644. Technology-Mediated Teaching & Learning. (B) Staff. \n\nStudents in this course will critically evaluate the role of technology in education.  Through a range of inquiry projects, research analysis and hands-on experience, students will examine the potential risks and benefits, as well as strategies of use for technology-mediated teaching and learning. Technologies considered will include: skill-building software, microworld software, visualization and modeling tools, internet search tools, media production tools, and collaboration technologies.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "644. Technology-Mediated Teaching & Learning. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "645", "description": "645. Methods of Discourse Analysis. (L) Wortham. \n\nThis course introduces several methodological approaches that have been developed to do discourse analysis.  The course intends primarily to provide students with various methodological tools for studying naturally-occurring speech. \n\nAssignments include both reading and weekly data analysis exercises.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "645. Methods of Discourse Analysis. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "647", "description": "647. Linguistic Anthropology of Education. (B) Wortham. \n\nThis course introduces theoretical insights and empirical approaches from contemporary linguistic anthropology and explores how these could be used to study topics of concern to educational researchers -- focusing on how discourse partly constitutes culture, identity and learning.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "647. Linguistic Anthropology of Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "648", "description": "SM 648. Practitioner Research. Ball, Dawson and Mata. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nDeveloping school leaders who are skilled practitioner researchers is an important goal of the School Leadership Program.  The steps of problem identification, determining vital questions, identifying data to be collected, developing a plan for collecting, analyzing the data, and developing a plan for implementation, and evaluation based on the findings form the focus of this course.  There are two aspects of this course.  The first is an introduction to practitioner research through a lecture series conducted by Sharon Ravitch.  The second is the development and carrying out of a practitioner research project.  The project will be completed to be submitted during the summer session.  Supervision and evaluation of that project will be conducted by Warren Mata, Priscilla Dawson,a nd Earl Ball.", "title": "648. Practitioner Research."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "649", "description": "SM 649. Applying Teaming and Moral Decision Making Concepts in Schools. Ball and Mata. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis course leads students to utilize two conceptual models to examine organizational practice in schools: working in groups and applying moral/ethical decision-making in schools.  These two unifying concepts are studied in modules led by GSE faculty.  In addition, ethical decision-making in schools will be expanded by two sessions led by independent school leaders. Students are provided opportunities to make connections between these two areas, which impact school leadership, as they engage in whole-day Focused Observations in five schools in a variety of K-12 settings.  To provide reflection on these topics, a monthly discussion intergrating ideas into practice is held.", "title": "649. Applying Teaming and Moral Decision Making Concepts in Schools."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "651", "description": "651. Field Internship Seminar: Inquiring into Principal Leadership for School Improvement. (A) Ball, Brody, Dawson, and Mata. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis second course of the School Leadership Program supports each student in becoming a reflective practitioner. \n\nStudents develop the inquiry, communication, and interpersonal skills needed to build a purposeful, collaborative learning community for adults and students.  Through inquiry projects students explore how effective school leaders can use data to inform their decisions.  Focused observations provide opportunities to visit area schools committed to school reform.  Students engage in a 360 hour on-site internship across the year with a current principal/school leader observing, participating, collaborating and leading school based activities during the school year.  A university- assigned mentor supervises the work of each student.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "651. Field Internship Seminar: Inquiring into Principal Leadership for School Improvement. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "652", "description": "652. Developing Instructional Leadership in Practice. (B) Ball, Brody, Dawson, and Mata. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis course emphasizes how to connect organizational systems with the school's instructional mission.  Students investigate how distributive leadership is a key factor in consistent implementation of the instructional mission.  The significance of building a community of learners for both adults and children is explored.  Participants study the importance of aligning, managing, and evaluating curriculum, instruction, assessment, professional development and instructional support systems with a focus on K-12 student achievement in mathematics and science.  Inquiry into effective uses of technology, begun in the fall term, is intensified in this term.  Coursework includes interactive case studies, debates, inquiry projects and field investigations.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "652. Developing Instructional Leadership in Practice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "653", "description": "653. Field Internship Seminar: Inquiring into Organizational and Legal Dimensions to Principal Leadership. (B) Ball, Brody, Dawson, and Mata. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThe course emphasizes that effective schools commit to the ongoing learning of children and adults.  Systems thinking provides the lens through which students inquire into how the principal's organizational leadership can support continuous school improvement through attention to school climate, program coherence, and effectiveness of instruction.  Students deepen their understanding of law and policy, affecting three significant areas: special education, teacher evaluation, and students' rights.  Three focused observations provide opportunities to visit schools engaged in continuous school improvement in mathematics, science and the arts.  A University-assigned mentor supervises the work of each student, as the 360 hour on-site internship continues.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "653. Field Internship Seminar: Inquiring into Organizational and Legal Dimensions to Principal Leadership. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "654", "description": "654. Aligning Fiscal, Human and Community Resources in Support of the School's Instructional Mission. (L) Brody, Dawson and Mata. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis course focuses on the effective utilization of resources to serve the mission of improving student achievement. \n\nConnecting the daily decision-making of the school, including managing budgets and funding streams, utilization of space, use of time, and scheduling and assignments of staff and students in accordance with the school's mission are emphasized.  Students purse an understanding of how a school leader has a public role as an advocate, catalyst, and broker, in spanning the boundaries between schools and the communities they serve.  Students develop inquiry projects to further their knowledge of community resources, budgeting, legal principles, school law and school district policies. \n\nThe Cumulative Portfolio is presented at the end of this course.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "654. Aligning Fiscal, Human and Community Resources in Support of the School's Instructional Mission. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "655", "description": "655. Fieldwork & Mentoring. (C) Ravitch. \n\nThis course is for practitioners and researchers engaging in and thinking about mentoring, supervision, and fieldwork in teacher education and counseling as well as in social work and other applied development fields.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "655. Fieldwork & Mentoring. (C)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "657", "description": "657. Advanced Methods in Middle & Secondary Education. Staff. \n\nFormal teaching and learning are on-going processes that require an examination of our practice and purpose through self-reflection, self-evaluation, collegial and student/teacher interaction, and personal and professional growth.  This course is the second half of a content-specific secondary methods sequence that is geared toward teaching middle and high school English, math, science and social studies in an urban setting.  Special focus will be on content, pedagogical strategies as well as specific skills and Pennsylvania and national standards.  We will work together as teacher- researchers to combine theory with practice to increase our understanding and utilization of an inquiry based, multiple perspective, constructivist approach to teaching.", "title": "657. Advanced Methods in Middle & Secondary Education."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "659", "description": "SM 659. Critical Issues in Education. Brody. Prerequisite(s): Admission to School Leadership Program. \n\nThis course is designed to engage students in analysis of three important issues of relevance to contemporary school leadership: technology, globalization and equity and access.  As they explore these topics students will be asked to define ways in which their leadership will provide guidance to their schools.  The course consists of three modules taught by GSE faculty members.  The instruction will be supplemented by current practitioners who will share how their schools address these issues in practice.", "title": "659. Critical Issues in Education."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "660", "description": "660. Qualitative Approaches to Program Evaluation in Urban Schools. Simon & Christman. Prerequisite(s): An ethnography course is recommended. \n\nStudents will gain a historical overview of qualitative evaluation and an understanding of the variety of approaches within the field.  Students will learn about evaluation techniques, research design and data analysis through a real case example in K-12 public education.  Students will prepare journal entries and propose a research design for evaluating a program using qualitative approaches.", "title": "660. Qualitative Approaches to Program Evaluation in Urban Schools."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "664", "description": "664. Doctoral Foundations of Teaching and Learning. (A)\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "664. Doctoral Foundations of Teaching and Learning. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "665", "description": "665. Research on Teaching. (A) Remillard. \n\nThis course is designed to explore the research literature on classroom teaching processes as well as the contrasting conceptual and methodological approaches upon which this literature is based.  The course is intended to help students become aware of the major substantive areas in the field, develop a critical perspective on contrasting paradigms, and raise questions about the implication of research on teaching for curriculum, instruction, evaluation, and teacher education.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "665. Research on Teaching. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "668", "description": "668. Master's Paper Seminar (FPE). (B) Staff. \n\nThe master's paper is a 30-40 page research paper that is required for completion of the M.S.Ed. degree in the Foundations & Practices of Education division.  The paper will be either an original research project or an original synthesis of previous research and argumentation.This course is set up to provide workshops and regular consultation and feedback on three drafts of the paper.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "668. Master's Paper Seminar (FPE). (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(FOLK672, URBS672)", "num": "672", "description": "672. (FOLK672, URBS672) Introduction to Ethnographic and Qualitative Research in Education. (C) Hall & Wortham. \n\nA course in ethnographic participant observational research; its substantive orientation, literature, and methods. \n\nEmphasis is on the interpretive study of social organization and culture in educational settings, formal and informal. \n\nMethods of data collection and analysis, critical review of examples of ethnographic research reports, and research design and proposal preparation are among the topics and activities included in this course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "672. (FOLK672, URBS672) Introduction to Ethnographic and Qualitative Research in Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "678", "description": "SM 678. Critical Issues in Religious Education in a Diverse Society. (A) Staff. \n\nThis course will explore the role of the teacher-leader as religious educator, in both public and private educational settings in the U.S.  Participants will be asked to examine beliefs and understandings of religions and of the historical roles that religion and religious beliefs play and have played in the diverse public square in U.S.  Since this is also a course that has a significant clinical component, a flexible cu amount is requested; students will earn between 1 and 3 cu's depending upon the amount of fieldwork activities undertaken.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "678. Critical Issues in Religious Education in a Diverse Society. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "698", "description": "698. Internship Education in Leadership. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "698. Internship Education in Leadership. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH707)", "num": "700", "description": "700. (ANTH707) Craft of Ethnography. (B) Hall. Prerequisite(s): Must have completed EDUC 672 or equivalent introductory qualitative methods course. \n\nThis course is designed to follow after Introduction to Qualitative and Ethnographic Methods (EDUC 672).  In the introductory course, students learned how to use qualitative methods in conducting a brief field study.  This advanced level course focuses on research design and specifically the craft of ethnographic research.  Students will apply what they learn in the course in writing a proposal for a dissertation research project.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "700. (ANTH707) Craft of Ethnography. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "702", "description": "702. Conceptual Models in Educational Administration. (C) Lytle (J). \n\nThe goal for the course is to help each of us develop new ways of understanding the schools and organizations in which we work.  Using Gareth Morgan's/Images of Organizations/ as our primary text, and a set of related readings, we will use metaphor as an interpretive tool.  Morgan's premise, and the premise of this course, is that one's ability to act in or on organizations is facilitated by one's capacity to \"read\" them from different perspectives.  Since most of us have spent most of our lives going to and working in schools, the challenge of \"seeing\" schools from new perspectives is therefore held to be particularly difficult.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "702. Conceptual Models in Educational Administration. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH704, COML706, FOLK706, URBS706)", "num": "706", "description": "706. (ANTH704, COML706, FOLK706, URBS706) Culture/Power/Identities. (A) Hall. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 547. \n\nThis course will introduce students to a conceptual language and the theoretical tools to analyze the complex dynamics of racial, ethnic, gender, sexual, and class differences.  The students will critically examine the interrelationships between culture, power, and identities through the recent contributions in cultural studies, critical pedagogy and post- structuralist theory and will explore the usefulness of these ideas for improving their own work as researchers and as practitioners.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "706. (ANTH704, COML706, FOLK706, URBS706) Culture/Power/Identities. (A)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "707", "description": "707. Curriculum Development. Staff. \n\nThis course examines different approaches to developing models for curriculum development as well as the resulting curricula.  Sstudents are provided with multiple opportunities to design curricula in varying contexts.  They also critique different types of curriculum for the purposes of developing their own working models.  A background in educational foundations is helpful.", "title": "707. Curriculum Development."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "806", "description": "806. Narrating the Self. (B) Wortham. \n\nThis seminar explores, in some linguistic detail, how narrators can partly construct their selves while telling autobiographical stories.  The seminar addresses three questions: What is the structure of narrative discourse?  How might we construct ourselves by telling stories about ourselves?  If narrative is central to self-constructions, what is \"the self\"?\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "806. Narrating the Self. (B)"}, null, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "519", "description": "519. The Evolution of Assessment: Classroom and Policy Uses. Supovitz. \n\nThis course explores the evolution and diverse uses of assessment in four major areas: the historical roots of testing industry; the rising interest and exploration of alternative forms of assessment; how teachers employ a variety of assessments in their classrooms; and how policymakers use assessment for decision-making and accountability purposes.", "title": "519. The Evolution of Assessment: Classroom and Policy Uses."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "548", "description": "548. American Education Reform: History, Policy and Practice. (B) Puckett. \n\nAn examination of major themes in twentieth century American education. Topics include school reform, ethnicity and race, higher education, work and education, the war on poverty, teaching and teachers, the development of secondary education, and the curriculum.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "548. American Education Reform: History, Policy and Practice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "559", "description": "559. Sociology of Education. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course provides an overview of key theoretical perspectives and topics in the sociology of education, including expansion of formal educational systems; the extent to which educational systems contribute to or inhibit social mobility; inequality of educational inputs and outcomes by race, social class, and gender; and the social organization of educational institutions, including sources of authority, community, and alienation.  The course includes both K-12 and higher education topics.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "559. Sociology of Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "586", "description": "586. Sociology of Families and Schools. Staff. \n\nThis course draws on literature in the sociology of the family and sociology of education to consider the relationships between the sometimes-partnering, sometimes-competing institutions of family and school.", "title": "586. Sociology of Families and Schools."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "591", "description": "591. Program Evaluation and Policy Analysis. Maynard. \n\nThe class is designed to provide students with the knowledge and tools to define relevant research questions to guide program design and operations, as well as to guide policy development; to map questions to appropriate methods of reserarch; to judge the quality of research evidence; and to design strong analysis and evaluation strategies for various purposes.  The primary, but not exclusive, focus of the course is on education policy concerns.", "title": "591. Program Evaluation and Policy Analysis."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "601", "description": "601. Economic Aspects of Educational Policy. (A) Maynard. \n\nThis course has two main goals.  One is to teach students to apply economic principals to analuze a wide range of educational policy issues.  The other is to provide students with a foundation in contemporary education policy issues. The course is designed to address analytic issues relevant to a wide range of educational professionals, including managers, policy makers, and evaluators. The course will be divided into five units: (1) principles of economic analysis in the context of education policy; (2) the economics of early care and education; (3) cost-effectiveness analysis; (4) human capital investment; and (5) education finance.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "601. Economic Aspects of Educational Policy. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(AFRC604)", "num": "604", "description": "604. (AFRC604) Foundations of Urban Education. (A) Slaughter-Defoe. \n\nIntroduction to urban education through reading of selected \"classic\" and foundational texts.  Designed for prospective researchers, scholars, and school personnel.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "604. (AFRC604) Foundations of Urban Education. (A)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "614", "description": "614. Child Development and Social Policy. Slaughter-Defoe. Prerequisite(s): Introduction to Child or Adolescent Development preferred. \n\nThis course focuses on the interrelationships among social scientists, their research, and public policy of children and families.  A major objective is to offer students sufficient historial research-related background for understanding the framing of policy issues relevant to the education and development of children impacted by poverty and ethnic minority social status. The class format is a graduate seminar with emphasis on the exchange of views between students.", "title": "614. Child Development and Social Policy."}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "624", "description": "624. Schools as Organizations. (C) Ingersoll, R. \n\nThis course examines schools as workplaces, teachers as employees and teaching as a job.  It is concerned with the character of the teaching occupation and the organization of elementary and secondary schooling.  It draws from multiple fields and perspectives, including: organizational theory; the sociology of organizations, occupations and work; educational administration; and school leadership.  The objective is to have students understand and evaluate a series of different perspectives from theory, research and policy. This is a doctoral-level course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "624. Schools as Organizations. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "625", "description": "625. Data Processing and Analysis. (A) Turner. Prerequisite(s): Educ 667 or equivalent. \n\nUse of Statistical Software including Statistical Analysis (SAS) to effectively build a wide variety of datasets for use to address a range of empirical research questions.  Evaluate conventional methods for dealing with missing data and apply contemporary methods using SAS.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "625. Data Processing and Analysis. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "628", "description": "628. Education Finance Policy. (A) Goertz. \n\nThis course examines the legal, political and economic issues surrounding how public schools are funded, including equity and the interaction of finance and school reform.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "628. Education Finance Policy. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "667", "description": "667. Introductory Statistics for Educational Research. (C) Boe. \n\nScales of measurement; indices of central tendency and variability; product-movement correlation; introduction to the chi-squared; Z, T, and F distributions.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "667. Introductory Statistics for Educational Research. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "680", "description": "680. Evaluation of Policies, Programs and Projects. (A) Boruch. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 667 or equivalent. \n\nBasic evaluation policy and methods for determining nature and severity of problems, implementation of programs relative effects and cost-effectiveness of interventions to reduce problems, design and conduct of evaluation studies in education, social services, crime and delinquency, in the U.S. and other countries.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "680. Evaluation of Policies, Programs and Projects. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(STAT502)", "num": "683", "description": "683. (STAT502) Survey Methods & Design. (B) Boruch. Prerequisite(s): Educ 667 or equivalent.  Undergraduate statistics or tests and measurement. \n\nThis course covers the methods and design of field surveys in the U.S. and other countries in education, the social sciences, criminal justice research, and other areas.  It covers methods of eliciting information through household, mail, telephone surveys, methods of assuring privacy, enhancing cooperation rates and related matters.  Finally, the fundamentals of statistical sampling and sample design are handled.  Much of the course is based on contemporary surveys sponsored by the National Center for Education Statistics and other federal, state and local agencies.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "683. (STAT502) Survey Methods & Design. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "684", "description": "684. Measurement & Assessment. (A) McDermott. \n\nAnalysis of primary assessment concepts including basic theoretical principles, types and purposes of assessment devices, levels of measurement, standardization and norming, and methods to support reliability and validity; special focus on appropriate test interpretation, fairness, measurement of change, and incremental validity; application of standards for test development, usage, and critique in education, health care, public policy, and scientific inquiry.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "684. Measurement & Assessment. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "712", "description": "712. Policy Making in Education: Theory and Practice. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course examines how K-12 education policy is designed and implemented in the United States.  It uses a systems analysis as the framework for looking at who makes what kinds of demands on the education policy system, how these demands are placed on the policy agenda, the decision making process, and resulting education policies and policy outcomes.  The course pays particular attention to the roles of federal, state and local governments in education policy, and the impact of our intergovernmental system on the design and implementation of policy.  Students will also examine major education policies and debate key education policy issues that arise at each level of government.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "712. Policy Making in Education: Theory and Practice. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "805", "description": "805. Current ISS Tchr/Tch Pol. (B)\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "805. Current ISS Tchr/Tch Pol. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "767", "description": "767. Regression and Analysis of Variance. (C) Boruch. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 667 or equivalent. \n\nThis course covers design of controlled randomized experiments, analysis of survey data and controlled field experiments, including statistical models, regression, hypothesis testing, relevant data analysis and reporting.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "767. Regression and Analysis of Variance. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "768", "description": "768. Measurement Theory and Test Construction. (M) McDermott. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 684 or equivalent. \n\nDesign of ability, achievement, and performance measures such as those applied for high-stakes decision making in large-scale assessment and for diagnosis and classification of individuals; advanced true-score and item response theory; item formatting, analysis, selection, calibration, linking, and scaling; analysis of reliability for continuous, ordinal, nominal, and composite scales; analysis of differential item functioning; unidimensionality, and local independence; model contrasting, test equating, and scaling for longitudinal assessment; standards and cut-point setting.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "768. Measurement Theory and Test Construction. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "771", "description": "771. Factor Analysis and Scale Development. (A) McDermott. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 684 or equivalent. \n\nAdvanced measurement theory; exploratory and confirmatory item factoring and clustering for self-report, observational, rating, performance, and personality instruments;factoring of dichotomous and ordered categorical data, full-information factoring; scaling procedures, hierarchical structure, full-information bifactor structure, invariance, generality, reliability, validity, interpretation, and scientific reporting.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "771. Factor Analysis and Scale Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "829", "description": "829. Policy Research Seminar. (C) Boe. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 667 or equivalent. \n\nA systematic introduction to general issues and methods of research relevant to contemporary education policy or to social policy.  Reading, discussion, and analysis of research on a variety of policy topics that illustrate various research methods, issues, and problems.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "829. Policy Research Seminar. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "838", "description": "838. Applied Research & Reporting. (C) Maynard. Prerequisite(s): Competence in basic statistics and computer literacy. \n\nHands-on experience conducting applied research.  Students will be guided through a research project of relevance to education or social policy chosen by the student, with assistance from the instructor.  The research entails analysis of one or more public or quasi-public use data sets, such as the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth; the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth Child Supplement; The Teenage Parent Demonstration Data Base; the National Profile of Child Care Settings Data Base; or the National Post Secondary Student Aid Survey.  The students will prepare journal-length papers based on their research and respond to the reviews of classmates and the instructor.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "838. Applied Research & Reporting. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(CRIM871)", "num": "871", "description": "871. (CRIM871) Randomized Trials and Experiments. (A) Boruch. \n\nThis course will cover three alternatives to conventional modeling in the social sciences: (1) design and execution of field trials in education and other social sectors including criminology, (2) quasi-experiments especially contemporary research comparing results of randomized and non-randomized trials, and (3) analysis for descriptive and exploratory purposes.  The course themes include causal inference, vulnerability of models applied to observational data, recent developments computer-intensive inductive approaches to data, and related matters. \n\n Although some methodological background papers will be discussed, the seminar is case study oriented with readings from contemporary research on the topics from peer reviewed journals and well-vetted reports issued by governmental and nongovernment agencies.  Cases will include work supported by IES on effects of Odyssey Math, for example, and work in the crime and justice arena.  We will study the work of scholars affiliated with Penn who are actively involved in randomized and non-randomized trials, for instance, and the work of colleagues at other universities (Berkeley, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Princeton, others) and colleagues in non-profit and for profit research organizations such as Analytica, AIR, Mathematica and others that contribute tolearning in this arena. \n\n Colleagues who have contributed notably to contemporary trials and related topics, and whose work we study, will be invited to present guest lectures. Seminar participants are required to read relevant papers prior to the presentations.The coure is open to graduate students who have had basic statistics courses at the graduate level, and have a strong interest in evidence based policy and in studies that transcend discipline boundaries.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "871. (CRIM871) Randomized Trials and Experiments. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "880", "description": "880. Complex, Multilevel, and Longitudinal Research Models. (A) McDermott. EDUC 767 or equivalent. \n\nDesign construction, sampling, internal and external validity principles; univariate and multivariate statistical treatment of experimental and quasi-experimental data; computer processing, interpretation, and reporting for simple and complex factorial,repeated measures, time series, growth trajectory, unbalanced, and multiple consistent and inconsistent covariates designs; error covariance structure modeling, hierarchical linear (and nonlinear) modeling, and multilevel individual growth-curve modeling.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "880. Complex, Multilevel, and Longitudinal Research Models. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "881", "description": "881. Applied Multivariate Statistics. (B) McDermott. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 767 or equivalent and permission of instructor. \n\nMultivariate strategies for hypothesis testing, prediction, and classification including multiple regression, multivariate multiple regression, canonical regression, multiple logistic regression, multiple discriminant functions, factor analysis of scaled variables, hierarchical cluster analysis, and multivariate classification analysis; computer processing, interpretation, and reporting.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "881. Applied Multivariate Statistics. (B)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "900", "description": "SM 900. Research Seminar in Education. (C) Staff. \n\nIssues in research design, development of a literature review, and dissertation proposal.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "900. Research Seminar in Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "(EDUC465)", "num": "507", "description": "507. (EDUC465) Sociology of Language. (L) Pomerantz. \n\nThis course examines the intersection of language and society, asking how language ideologies might be implicated in the construction and maintenance of such constructs as national identity, 'standard' language variety, race, and ethnicity. \n\nThrough theoretical readings and case studies, participants will question how particular linguistic situations give rise to certain institutional practices and probe how these practices might foster inequitable relations of power.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "507. (EDUC465) Sociology of Language. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "516", "description": "516. Teaching Writing to English as a Second Language Students. (A) Howard. \n\nAn introduction to current research and theories on second language writing and composition pedagogy.  Students analyze writing samples by second language learners, observe and critique writing lessons, design and present mini- lessons, compose a teaching philosophy, and design curricula for second language writing courses.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "516. Teaching Writing to English as a Second Language Students. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "517", "description": "517. Classroom Discourse and Interaction. (B) Rymes. \n\nAn examination of research on language use in the classroom and its impact on the academic, linquistic, and social development of students.  This course is designed for teachers interested in studying their own classrooms, as well as teacher trainers and education researchers.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "517. Classroom Discourse and Interaction. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "525", "description": "525. Fieldwork in Language in Education. (C) Staff. TESOL fieldwork may be also offered in the summer. \n\nSupervised fieldwork for individuals preparing to work in TESOL or with reading specialist/teachers in school settings.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "525. Fieldwork in Language in Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "527", "description": "527. Approaches to Teaching English and Other Modern Languages. (A) Pica. \n\nThis course provides an introduction to theory and practice in language teaching and opportunities for guided research. \n\nReadings cover major issues in the field from the disciplinary perspectives of linguistics, psychology, anthropology, and education.  Class meetings provide opportunities for students to raise questions, react to readings, offer formal presentations, create materials, and gain practice in teaching.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "527. Approaches to Teaching English and Other Modern Languages. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(THAR228)", "num": "528", "description": "528. (THAR228) English in Academic Life. (M) Staff. \n\nA comprehensive course for non-native speakers on the various speech, written, and analytical styles associated with English usage in academic settings. Includes intensive work with individuals on skills development and course preparation.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "528. (THAR228) English in Academic Life. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "533", "description": "533. Forming and Reforming the Elementary Reading/Writing/Literacy Curriculum. (A) Staff. \n\nStudents explore the theory and practice of constructivist approaches to teaching reading/writing/talking across the curriculum.  They read widely and discuss issues that are informed by theory and research in many fields of inquiry including children's and adolescent literature, educational linguistics, cognitive psychology, curriculum, and anthropology and assessment.  They write and share integrative journals; develop, teach and reflect upon holistic lessons; and complete an individual or group project of their own choosing.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "533. Forming and Reforming the Elementary Reading/Writing/Literacy Curriculum. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "535", "description": "535. Literature for Children and Adolescents. (C) Sipe. \n\nTheoretical and practical aspects of the study of literature for children and adolescents.  Students develop both wide familiarity with children's/adolescents' books and understanding of how literature can be used in elementary/middle/secondary school curricula.  Students complete individualized course projects that focus on literature in specific classroom, research, home, or professional contexts.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "535. Literature for Children and Adolescents. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "537", "description": "537. Educational Linguistics. (A) Butler, Y. and Howard, K. \n\nFor students with little or no linguistics background.  An introduction to the basic levels of language (phonetics and phonology, morphology and semantics, syntax, pragmatics) with special emphasis on the relevance of linguistic concepts to education.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "537. Educational Linguistics. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(THAR439)", "num": "539", "description": "539. (THAR439) Teaching Performance Art for Cross-Cultural Education. (B) Furman. \n\nThis class examines issues related to cultural communities and the arts, specifically performance, writing and storytelling as an educational tool for generating cross cultural and intercultural understanding, dialogue and exchange. \n\nAssignments will focus on, cross-cultural research and dialogue, and skill building in teaching, writing and performance.  Students will also develop an understanding of how performance can be used to enhance classroom activities in elementary/middle/secondary/post secondary classroom curricula.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "539. (THAR439) Teaching Performance Art for Cross-Cultural Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "546", "description": "546. Sociolinguistics in Education. (B) Hornberger/Howard. \n\nThe educational consequences of linguistic and cultural diversity.  A broad overview of sociolinguistics, introducing both early foundational work and current issues in the field.  Topics include language contact and language prestige, multilingualism and language ecology, regional and stylistic variation, verbal repertoire and communicative competence, language and social identity, codeswitching and diglossia, language socialization and language ideology, as they relate to educational policy and practice in the United States and around the world.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "546. Sociolinguistics in Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "(FOLK552)", "num": "549", "description": "549. (FOLK552) Writing and Culture. (L) Camitta. \n\nIn this class we will look at writing as an expressive and instrumental part of culture and society.  We see writing as cultural artifact and cultural behavior, shaped by and shaping the context of its use.  This approach to writing is the foundation for the new literacy studies, which understands writing as several variable, multiple, diverse and changing practices contingent upon specific cultural and social contexts.  Readings for the course are drawn primarily from the New Literacy Studies, but also from philosophy, anthropology, folklore, literary theory, literature and linguistics.  We will consider ways these approaches to understanding and describing writing can inform classroom practice.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "549. (FOLK552) Writing and Culture. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "563", "description": "SM 563. Internship & Seminar: TESOL. (C) Advisor. \n\nA weekly seminar will cover topics in the field of TESOL which relate to the students'final reflective or action research papers.  All students in the MSEd/TESOL program must submit a proposal for the internship in the semester before they take EDUC 563.  They must complete a thirty-hour fieldwork project during the semester in which they are enrolled in 563. \n\n All students in the MSEd/TESOL program must complete a supervised 30 hour service project.  The supervised project is individually designed and is subject to the advisor's approval.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "563. Internship & Seminar: TESOL. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(URBS566)", "num": "566", "description": "566. (URBS566) Cross Cultural Awareness. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course provides students experiential and cognitive awareness through affective exercises and readings.  It explores issues of living in a diverse society through a variety of educational strategies including workshops, small group process, guest lectures, etc.  It represents the seminar portion of P.A.C.E. (Programs for Awareness in Cultural Education): An \"Educating the Peer Educator\" Program.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "566. (URBS566) Cross Cultural Awareness. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "567", "description": "SM 567. Internship: ICC. (C) Advisor. Prerequisite(s): Eight or more courses toward M.S.Ed. degree in Intercultural Communication. Corequisite(s): Permission required. \n\nAll students in the MS/ICC program must complete a supervised internship.  The supervised internship is individually designed and is subject to the advisor's approval.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "567. Internship: ICC. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "571", "description": "571. History of the English Language. (M) Staff. \n\nA survey of the major historical trends in the development of the English language.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "571. History of the English Language. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(GSOC572)", "num": "572", "description": "572. (GSOC572) Language and Gender. (B) Pomerantz. \n\nThis course traces the development of research on language and gender, introducing key theoretical issues and methodological concerns in this area. Participants will consider how gener ideologies shape and are shaped by language use, paying close attention to the role of power in the examination of this relationship.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "572. (GSOC572) Language and Gender. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "578", "description": "578. Teaching Reading and Study in Colleges and Universities. (L) Cohen. \n\nExplores the content, materials, methods, and organization of programs to teach reading, writing, and study skills to students in a variety of college and university settings.  Prerequisite for staff membership in Penn's Department of Academic Support Programs: Tutoring and Learning Resources.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "578. Teaching Reading and Study in Colleges and Universities. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "579", "description": "579. Intercultural Communication and Miscommunication. (L) Smith. \n\nAn introduction to basic issues in intercultural communication, reviewing various perspectives on the nature of culture, communication, \"miscommunication\" and inter-cultural relations.  The course criticizes two commonly held assumptions: 1) that \"cultures\" are unitary and unchanging and 2) that inter-cultural contact and communication is inherently more troublesome then intra-cultural communication.  The course considers ways in which intercultural communication has important consequences in education, medicine, social services, business settings, and international contact situations.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "579. Intercultural Communication and Miscommunication. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "583", "description": "583. Content-Based Instruction. (B) Staff. \n\nStudents investigate, observe, practice, and critically evaluate the integration of content and language--content-based instruction--for a variety of purposes and in a variety of settings, including: thematic, content-oriented ESL/EFL teaching; co-teaching and peer coaching by ESL and content teacher teams; and sheltered content instruction, using the SIOP (Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol).  Standards, typical tasks, and special language requirements in the content areas of science, mathematics, social studies, and language arts are reviewed.  In addition, theory and research on \"academic language\" are applied in the analysis of content-area tasks and standards and in the design of content- oriented language lessons, materials, tasks, and assessments.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "583. Content-Based Instruction. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "622", "description": "622. Responding to Literature: An Interdisciplinary Perspective. (A) Sipe. \n\nThis course deals with the ways in which readers respond to and transact with literary texts, and aims at helping students understand the nature of the variety of ways in which literature interfaces with our lives.  Three different types of discourse are read: literary criticism; empirical research on response to literature; and literary texts themselves. \n\nVarious types of literary criticism are considered, including (but certainly not limited to ) what is commonly called \"reader response criticism\"; text-based criticism; and criticism that contextualizes literature socially and historically. \n\nThe empirical research on response deals with ways in which readers of various ages interact with literature, mostly in school settings; some attention is given to instructional design and critique of methodology.  The literary texts range from picturebooks to literature for young adults.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "622. Responding to Literature: An Interdisciplinary Perspective. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "626", "description": "626. The Discourses of Teaching Reading. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course draws on varying pedagogical and personal perspectives to explore conceptions of reading comprehension and how it can be taught to children and adolescents.  Focus will be given to how certain ways of structuring dialogue about a text profoundly change how readers think about and do reading.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "626. The Discourses of Teaching Reading. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "629", "description": "629. Teaching English/Language and Literacy in Middle and Secondary Schools. (A) Lytle. \n\nThis course is a collaborative inquiry into the dynamic concept of adolescent literacy and its potential as an organizing construct for improving teaching and learning.  It provides opportunities to investigate a variety of resources including our own histories as well as a range of print, digital and visual texts and to conduct fieldwork in various middle and secondary school classrooms where youth are being positioned (and positioning themselves) as literacy learners and literacy is being defined, performed, practiced, interrogated, and interpreted, within and beyond the school curricula. \n\nBy engaging with youth, in various texts and contexts and for a range of purposes, participants will try to make sense of how adolescents negotiate their worlds, in school and out.  The approach to literacy is interdisciplinary, drawing from the domains of literature, composition, linquistics, curriculum theory, anthropology and psychology and from theory, research and practice of both university-based and school-based teachers, writers and researchers.  The intent is to pose and refine questions about what it means to teach literacy in ways that take seriously what youth bring to school as their own knowledge and passions, cultural and linguistic resources.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "629. Teaching English/Language and Literacy in Middle and Secondary Schools. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "633", "description": "633. Selected Topics in Reading/Writing. (M) Staff. \n\nExamines a topic of current interest to theory, research, and practice in writing.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "633. Selected Topics in Reading/Writing. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "634", "description": "634. Language Assessment. (B) Butler. \n\nThis course concerns a basic theoretical and practical foundation in language assessment, with particular emphasis on assessments used in second and foreign language education.  This course covers various kinds of testing (both formal testing and performance-based assessment), theoretical and technical issues associated with test development administration, the social influences of testing, and future directions in language assessment. \n\nStudent work will culminate with a final paper.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "634. Language Assessment. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "635", "description": "635. Assessing Language and Learning Differences. (B) Gadsden. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 533. Auditors not permitted. \n\nThis course exposes students to a wide variety of assessments used to look closely at growth in reading/writing/literacy. \n\nStudents critique both formal and informal approaches to assessment as well as complete structured observations of learners within diverse instructional contents.  Emphases include contextual and affective components of reading/language difficulties, innovative assessment procedures, observational strategies and collaborative inquiry.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "635. Assessing Language and Learning Differences. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "637", "description": "637. Advanced Methods in TESOL. (L) Micheau. \n\nStudents employ action research techniques and case studies to investigate challenges in teaching second languages in a variety of classroom settings. Fieldwork in teaching ESL forms the basis for a course paper.  Based on student self- evaluation, class members also review and deepen knowledge of such L2 teaching issues as form focus within task- based and content-based instruction, learning strategies in second language teaching, and materials adaptation. \n\nReadings on research and theory in second language pedagogy lead to a critical consideration of the construct of \"methodology\" within the diverse sociocultural contexts in which they plan to teach.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "637. Advanced Methods in TESOL. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "641", "description": "641. Language and the Professions. (L) Pica. \n\nThis course provides a critical perspective on language use in medical, legal, business, and educational settings.  Topics include: challenge and control in the courtroom; doctor-patient interaction in diagnosis and treatment; roles and relationships in school contexts.  Attention is given to analyzing communication breakdowns in the workplace and identifying practical solutions to them.  Issues involving language and power are explored in relation to differential treatment based on sex, age, social class, ethnicity and educational background.  Students are given opportunities to write a research proposal and engage in guided research.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "641. Language and the Professions. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "650", "description": "650. Cross-Cultural Variation in Language Use. (B) Staff. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 546, Sociolinguistics of Education, or equivalent. \n\nAn examination of the literature concerning rules and patterns of language behavior across various cultures.  Attention will be paid to both research methodology and to the educational implications of findings to the field of Teaching English to Students of Other Languages and to language pedagogy in general.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "650. Cross-Cultural Variation in Language Use. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LALS661)", "num": "661", "description": "661. (LALS661) Language Diversity and Education. (C) Hornberger. \n\nExploration of issues affecting educational policy and classroom practice in multilingual, multicultural settings, with an emphasis on ethnographic research.  Selected U.S. and international cases illustrate concerns relating to learners' bilingual/bicultural/biliterate development in formal educational settings.  Topics include policy contexts, program structures, teaching and learning in the multilingual classroom, discourses and identities in multilingual education policy and practice, and the role of teachers, researchers, and communities in implementing change in schools.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "661. (LALS661) Language Diversity and Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "662", "description": "662. Picturebooks and the Practice of Literacy. (B) Sipe. \n\nThis course examines the formal properties of picturebooks and their use in enabling literacy development.  The course uses aesthetic theory, theories of text-picture relationships, theories of literacy and theories of literary understanding, and also exposes students to empirical research on children's responses to this literary form.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "662. Picturebooks and the Practice of Literacy. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "666", "description": "666. Young Adult Fiction: Issues and Practices. (B) Sipe. \n\nThis course acquaints students with the ever-expanding body of literature written for young adults, considering the theoretical and pedagogical issues it raises.  Readings include many young adult novels; empirical research on adolescent response to literature; and literary theory.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "666. Young Adult Fiction: Issues and Practices. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "669", "description": "669. Seminar in Practitioner Inquiry. (B) Lytle, S. and Hartley, M. \n\nThis course is designed as a collaborative investigation into practitioner inquiry and the work of inquiry communities in K-16 and graduate/professional school settings, professional networks and community-based organizations.  The focus is on conceptual and methodological frameworks and methods of practitioner inquiry and the contexts, purposes and practices of differently situated inquiry communities.  Participants will explore a range of practitioner inquiry traditions and texts that go by terms such as action, collaborative, critical, community-based, participatory, autobiographical, emancipatory, narrative and pedagogical.  They will also conduct an inquiry based on their particular interests and contexts.  The course will emphasize practitioner inquiry that intentionally engages issues of equity, access and culture in educational settings.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "669. Seminar in Practitioner Inquiry. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "670", "description": "670. Second Language Acquisition. (A) Pica. \n\nThis course provides an introduction to theory and research on second language acquisition.  Linguistic, cognitive, social and pedagogical perspectives are considered through readings, lectures, activities, and assignments.  Students gain an understanding of research design, methodology, and documentation through guided analysis of published studies and an opportunity to deign and implement research projects.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "670. Second Language Acquisition. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "671", "description": "671. Adult Literacy. (A) Finn-Miller. \n\nTeaching reading/writing/literacy to adults for whom English is a first or second language.  Topics include contrasting conceptions of literacy and learning; participatory literacy programs; instruction and curriculum for adults with diverse cultural and linguistic backgrounds and nationalities; alternative/performance-based assessment; and practitioner research in adult literacy education.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "671. Adult Literacy. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "673", "description": "SM 673. Selected Topics in Educational Linguistics. (C) Staff. \n\nThe focus for each semester will vary to reflect those issues most relevant to current concerns in educational linguistics.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "673. Selected Topics in Educational Linguistics. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "674", "description": "674. ESL/FL Curriculum and Materials Development. (L) Micheau. \n\nStudents employ national, state and local standards in the design of a semester-long ESL/EFL course to fit their current or future teaching context. Participants apply theoretical and research knowledge from course readings and class discussion to: analyze the sociocultural context in which their course will be offered and draw implications for course design; conduct needs assessments; set objectives and experiment with performance assessments to measure students' progress towards those objectives; create the course content outline; select appropriate textbooks and adapt supplementary materials; and design original tasks and activities.  Some language teaching experience and previous language teaching methodology course desirable; EDUC 527 & EDUC 537 provide essential background for this advanced course.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "674. ESL/FL Curriculum and Materials Development. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "675", "description": "675. Structure of English. (B) Adams. \n\nThe goal of this course is to increase students' explicit knowledge of selected isolatable parts of the English language and to identify their pedagogical applications with respect to the needs of learners of English as a foreign/second language.  This goal is realized through an investgation of: 1) frequently occurring linguistic forms and the rules and principles that govern the way that these forms can be combined and ordered; 2) the meanings that can attach to these forms; and 3) the social functions associated with these forms.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "675. Structure of English. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "676", "description": "676. Discursive Approaches in Intercultural Communication. (A) Rymes. \n\nThis course offers a discourse-based approach to the study of intercultural communication, from the micro-level of interpersonal interaction to the macro- level of institutional practice.  Through a series of readings and field-based projects, participants will engage with different forms of discourse analysis and consider their application to a variety of multilingual/multicultural settings.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "676. Discursive Approaches in Intercultural Communication. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "679", "description": "679. Language for Specific Purposes. (A) Pomerantz. \n\nThis course offers international students a hands-on introduction to the practices which constitute academic language use in the fields of TESOL/ICC. Participants will focus on developing skills and strategies that will strengthen their existing expertise in the following areas: locating, reading and critiquing academic articles; producing graduate-level written work across a variety of genres; and participating in oral activities.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "679. Language for Specific Purposes. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "691", "description": "691. First Language Acquisition. (M) Staff. \n\nThis course is an introduction to first language acquisition covering the milestones in normal language development from infancy into early childhood. Topics include prelinguistic communication, early phonological development, word learning, emergence of syntax, early literacy and development of discourse skills.  The major theoretical issues in the field will be used to frame the discussions of language development such as the contribution of biological and environmental factors in language acquisition, the mental structure of linguistic knowledge, individual differences and cross-cultural differences in language acquisition.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "691. First Language Acquisition. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "723", "description": "723. Multicultural Issues in Education. (A) Gadsden. \n\nThis course examines critical issues, problems, and perspectives in multicultural education.  Intended to focus on access to literacy and educational opportunity, the course will engage class members in discussions around a variety of topics in educational practice, research, and policy. Specifically, the course will (1) review theoretical frameworks in multicultural education, (2) analyze the issues of race, racism, and culture in historical and contemporary perspective, and (3) identify obstacles to participation in the educational process by diverse cultural and ethnic groups.  Students will be required to complete field experiences and classroom activities that enable them to reflect on their own belief systems, practices, and educational experiences.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "723. Multicultural Issues in Education. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "724", "description": "724. Literacy: Social and Historical Perspectives. (M) Street. \n\nA review of the cross-cultural and historical literature on writing and reading with emphasis on the identification of norms and practices which affect the teaching and learning of reading and literacy today.  Special attention to the social functions of literacy in work, home, and school settings and to myths regarding the consequences of literacy for cognition, socio-economic mobility, and predictability, and the predictability of citizen behaviors.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "724. Literacy: Social and Historical Perspectives. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "735", "description": "735. Tutorial Work in Reading/Writing/Literacy. (B) Gross. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor. \n\nStudents further their understanding of dynamic relationships among affect, curriculum and instructional context by teaching individuals and small groups throughout the semester.  Students' teaching is supervised in weekly seminars and reflected upon through writing, descriptive reviews, and focused discussions.  Emphases include child study, observation, and affective and social dimensions of language.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "735. Tutorial Work in Reading/Writing/Literacy. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "737", "description": "737. Research in Teaching Writing. (M) Lytle. \n\nThis course is designed as a collaborative inquiry into the literatures on writing and the teaching of writing from a variety of disciplinary and interdisciplinary perspectives.  Its purpose is to provide a context in which participants construct interpretive frameworks for critical readings of these literatures from their multiple perspectives as students, teachers, writers and researchers.  It addresses different discourse communities and explores how teaching and researching writing can be acts for social justice and change.  Readings include conceptual and empirical research, essays, poetry and fiction.  The course draws on participants' experiences as writers and readers, in and out of school, and pays particular attention to the generation and uses of autobiographical texts and narrative inquiry in teaching and research.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "737. Research in Teaching Writing. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "834", "description": "834. Theories of Reading. (M) Lytle. \n\nThis course is designed as a collaborative inquiry toward constructing and elaborating theories of practice as teachers and/or researchers of reading. Using a seminar or working group format, participants explore the relationships among theory, reading, practice, pedagogy and research.  The course's conceptualization is informed primarily by (1) frameworks from critical, feminist and culturally-centered literatures which foreground issues of equity, representation, and ethics; and (2) current conversations in the field of literacy where the definitions, purposes, and practices of reading have been made problematic.  It also invites participants to engage the notion that knowledge for teaching and research comes from inquiry into the questions, issues, and contradictions that arise from everyday life.  The course provides historical lenses for comparative analyses of theoretical frameworks and research paradigms as well as opportunities to investigate participants' individual histories as well as teaching and research interests.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "834. Theories of Reading. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "835", "description": "SM 835. Seminar in Reading and Writing. (M) Staff. \n\nParticipants in the course examine landmark studies in the field of reading, writing, and literacy; explore different approaches to composing critical reviews of the literature for academic journals, dissertations and other research projects; and select, search, and review the theoretical and empirical literature related to a topic of their own interest in the domains of reading, writing and literacy.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "835. Seminar in Reading and Writing. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "836", "description": "836. Issues in Instructional Leadership in Reading and Writing. (B) Staff. \n\nParticipants will consider current critical issues in Reading, Writing, and Literacy, such as: improving accountability and assessment; approaches to professional development and curriculum development; and the use of scientifically \"valid\" research to advance literacy learning.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "836. Issues in Instructional Leadership in Reading and Writing. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "845", "description": "SM 845. Seminar in Microethnography. (B) Howard. \n\nThis course provides an introduction to theory and method in the unified analysis of verbal and nonverbal behavior as it is culturally patterned, socially organized, and socially organizing in face-to-face interaction, in an approach that integrates participant observation with the detailed analysis of audiovisual records.  Students read relevant literature in linguistic anthropology, interactional sociolinguistics, conversation analysis, and embodiment in social interaction. \n\nClass requirements include in-class reading presentations, a small microethnographic research project, and several short data analysis reports drawing on differing levels of analysis and differing theortical orientations.  Students review and apply methods of audiovisual data collection, transcription, processing, archiving, and presentation.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "845. Seminar in Microethnography. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "911", "description": "911. Issues in Second Language Acquisition. (L) Pica. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 670. \n\nThis course is designed for students to be able to analyze, synthesize and discuss second language acquisition theory and research on the basis of intensive reading of work that reflects perennial and current issues in the field. \n\nComparisons and connections are drawn from theoretical and empirical literature on second language acquisition processes, constraints, and interventions.  Relevant research methods are also addressed.  Topics, issues, and readings are updated each time the course is offered.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "911. Issues in Second Language Acquisition. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "917", "description": "917. Research Seminar: Language and Power. (M) Street. \n\nThe investigation of language use in everyday interaction as a reflection of the structure and value system of society.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "917. Research Seminar: Language and Power. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "920", "description": "SM 920. Research Seminar in Reading and Writing. (B) Staff. \n\nFor doctoral candidates and others engaged in research and advanced professional study in the field of literacy.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "920. Research Seminar in Reading and Writing. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(LALS927)", "num": "927", "description": "SM 927. (LALS927) Research Seminar: Language Policy and Education. (B) Hornberger. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor. \n\nSeminar participants are introduced to concepts, theories, and methods in the field of language planning and policy, which they then apply in developing their own library-based research on specific language planning cases from around the world.  Cases may include: official language decisions, instructional medium choices, literacy initiatives, gender- neutral language reforms, foreign/heritage/second language pedagogy and policy, indigenous language revitalization efforts, or other language-related decisions and policies at international, national or local levels.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "927. (LALS927) Research Seminar: Language Policy and Education. (B)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "514", "description": "514. Education in Developing Countries. (C) Wagner. Prerequisite(s): Prior graduate work in related areas recommended. \n\nThis seminar will cover a number of topics in human development (e.g., fertility, health, sex-roles) and education (e.g., pre-school interventions, literacy campaigns, non-formal education,technology innovations)in developing countries that have received attention from researchers and policy planners, and in the work of international agencies such as UNICEF, UNESCO, World Bank and USAID.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "514. Education in Developing Countries. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(AFRC522)", "num": "522", "description": "522. (AFRC522) Psychology of the African-American. (B) Stevenson. \n\nUsing an Afro-centric philosophical understanding of the world, this course will focus on psychological issues related to African Americans, including the history of African American psychology, its application across the life span, and contemporary community issues.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "522. (AFRC522) Psychology of the African-American. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "534", "description": "SM 534. School-Communityh Mental Health Partnerships: Theory & Practice. (B) Watts. \n\nThis course gives students an orientation to the field of school-community partnerships for the delivery of mental health prevention and intervention services to children.  Using a unique theoretical framework for developing cross- institutional collaborations that is grounded in social-cognitive development risk resilience research, we examine several programs translating that theory into practices for parents, children, and school staff. Strategiesfor conducting needs assessments and gaining entry into schools as an outside community member, and developing documentation and evaluation measures are presented.  At all times, the course will hold the multiple perspectives of the individual child and the systems around the child, with the goal of having students understand individual interventions in the context of institutional relationships and systemic change.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "534. School-Communityh Mental Health Partnerships: Theory & Practice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "553", "description": "553. Foundations of Special Education. (L) Staff. \n\nAn introduction to Special Education including the history, the legal regulation of Special Education, and an examination of critical issues.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "553. Foundations of Special Education. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "557", "description": "557. Interactional Processes with Adolescents. (C) Nakkula. \n\nFocuses on theories of adolescent development and the nature of transactions among adolescents, peers, teachers, specialists, and significant others. Also covers methods of intervening to promote psychological growth.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "557. Interactional Processes with Adolescents. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "558", "description": "558. Interactional Processes with Young Adults. (M) Burnes. \n\nThis course is designed as a collaborative inquiry toward constructing and elaborating upon theories of young adult development and interactions with young adults as counselors, teachers, family members, and higher education administrators.  Using a seminar or working group format, participants explore the relationships among developmental theory, sociocultural contexts of young adults, practice (e.g., interventions, relationships), and research.  Using literature from empirical and popular, mainstream sources, participants will engage in learning of how young adults navigate the transition from adolescence to adulthood.  Specific topics to be addressed include, \"the quarterlife crisis,\" financial needs of young adults, relationships, family, and career exploration and crystallization.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "558. Interactional Processes with Young Adults. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "560", "description": "560. Human Development. (C) Staff. \n\nProvides an introduction to physical, social, cognitive, emotional and linguistic development from infancy to adulthood.  Major theories related to human development will be discussed along with methods of intervention for individuals in various life stages.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "560. Human Development. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "561", "description": "561. Adolescent Development. (A) Dupree. \n\nAn interdisciplinary view will be used to frame biological, psychological, and social development among adolescents. \n\nSpecial emphasis will be placed on how contextual factors influence developmental outcomes.  Theories of adolescent development and methods of intervention will also be discussed.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "561. Adolescent Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "562", "description": "562. Personality & Social Development. (B) Frye. \n\nThe effects of social processes on human development in the interlocking contexts of parents, family, peers, school, communities and culture are considered during the major developmental periods of infancy, childhood, adolescence and adulthood.  The course examines what is unique about social developments, how social relationships can be defined, and what are the social precursors and consequences of specific developmental changes.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "562. Personality & Social Development. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "565", "description": "565. Contemporary Issues in Community Psychology. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 686. \n\nThis course focuses on three related issues.  The history and evolution of community psychology within the political, economic and scientific contexts is the first issue.  Second, students examine the discipline's distinction between community mental health and community psychology.  Third, students examine the implications of disease prevention and health promotion for the discipline's current status and future development.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "565. Contemporary Issues in Community Psychology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "568", "description": "568. Cognitive Development. (A) Frye. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 560 or equivalent. \n\nThis course examines the cognitive development of the child from infancy to adolescence with an emphasis on cultural context.  Topics include: origins of thinking, Piaget, Vygotsky, intelligence, development of learning and memory, language development, and moral development.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "568. Cognitive Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC574)", "num": "574", "description": "574. (AFRC574) Race/Ethnicity in Human Development. (M) Staff. \n\nThis interdisciplinary course will employ a critical perspective on minority youth development, analyze the existing literature, and propose alternative explanations for observed phenomena.  It will consider pertinent issues and theories of middle childhood, adolescent and young adult development.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "574. (AFRC574) Race/Ethnicity in Human Development. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC575)", "num": "575", "description": "SM 575. (AFRC575) Selected Topics in the Psychology of Education. (M) Staff. \n\nConsideration of research, practice, and theory on selected introductory topics in learning development, measurement, evaluation, or psychological services.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "575. (AFRC575) Selected Topics in the Psychology of Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "580", "description": "580. Interactional Processes with Children. (B) Fantuzzo. \n\nAn introduction to the rudiments of designing effective school-based strategies for preschool and elementary school children.  Students are introduced to a child-centered approach to the development of school-based intervention that includes three core elements: (a) a theory of the whole child, (b) methods of obtaining high quality information, and (c) the utilization of quality information to establish and strengthen beneficial connections that promote learning and development.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "580. Interactional Processes with Children. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "(GSOC581)", "num": "581", "description": "581. (GSOC581) Advanced Psychology of Women. (L) Stanley. Prerequisite(s): Introduction to Psychology and an undergraduate course in the Psychology of Women or approval by professor. \n\nThe course is intended for those who already have a foundation in the study of the psychology of women and want to expand their understanding of the provision of psychological services to include a contextual, feminist, and relational perspective.  Theoretical and applied practices regarding women's mental health, issues of diversity, sexuality and relationships for women will be addressed\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "581. (GSOC581) Advanced Psychology of Women. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "582", "description": "582. Social Psychology. (M) Staff. \n\nA course covering basic issues in social theory and applications to social problems.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "582. Social Psychology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "585", "description": "585. Psychology of Group and Family Systems Intervention. (L) Lappin. \n\nThis course focuses on the basics of systems intervention with a specific focus on families and groups.  The purpose is to develop more advanced knowledge of practical therapeutic problem-solving skills at the graduate student level using ecological, systemic, and cultural perspectives.  Students will be exposed to advanced group therapy strategies with children, youth, and adults, with family interventions across various mental health diagnostic populations, and how to intervene within groups and families in which cultural differences and styles are key themes. \n\n Students will also be challenged to develop a preliminary rationale for a systemic theory of behavior change. \n\nGiven the diversity of clients that counselors see professionally, some advanced and demonstrated knowledge of how cultural differences will be addressed in the counseling session and in the relationships of larger societal institutions will be expected.  This course will satisfy the Group work II requirement of the MPE program in Professional Counseling and Psychology.  The course also fits within the APHD theme of Applied Psychology: Intervention and Certification.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "585. Psychology of Group and Family Systems Intervention. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "610", "description": "610. Cultural Perspectives on Human Development. (B) Wagner. \n\nThis course focuses on comparing/contrasting psychological and anthropological accounts of child and human development which utilize cross-cultural and cross-national research.  Topics may cover such issues as childhood socialization, literacy and culture, Vygotsky and Piaget in cultural context.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "610. Cultural Perspectives on Human Development. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(GSOC612)", "num": "612", "description": "612. (GSOC612) Interactinoal Processes with LGBT Individuals. (M) Burnes. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 663 Socio-Cultural Foundations/Applied Psychology. \n\nIn the past quarter century, the awareness of the unique issues facing lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) individuals has expanded and become essential knowledge in our work as educators, providers of psychological services, and other service provision fields.  This course provides a contextual and applied understanding the interactional processes facing LGBT individuals.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "612. (GSOC612) Interactinoal Processes with LGBT Individuals. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "613", "description": "613. Group Counseling. (B) Staff. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 686 Psychological Interventions. \n\nThrough didactic and experimental learning activities, students will explore various theoretical approaches to groups, learn and apply principles of group dynamics, develop familiarity with ethical, legal and professional standards relative to group leadership, learn member roles and functions in group, examine group counseling in a multicultural context, and relate these issues to the leader's interpersonal style and behavior.  Applications to specific developmental stages and contexts will be explored.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "613. Group Counseling. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "615", "description": "615. Parenting and Children's Educational Development. (A) Slaughter-Defoe. \n\nTheory and research on family influences on achievement development, models of the home-learning environment; parental involvement in schools.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "615. Parenting and Children's Educational Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "617", "description": "617. Psychology of School-to-Career Transitions. (B) Staff. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 685 Career Development. \n\nThis psychology course will focus on the developmental and emotional changes that coincide with adolescents' conceptions of work and work-related activities.  As a course in career psychology, students will be exposed to readings from multiple disciplinary perspectives and will be expected to learn how to work with youth as they struggle through decisions on career and moving beyond the safety of childhood and adolescence.  In addition, students will learn about the family-youth and school-student relational dynamics and that occur simultaneous to the adolescent's development of a work ethic.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "617. Psychology of School-to-Career Transitions. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "623", "description": "623. Childhood Interventions. (B) Slaughter-Defoe. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 560 Human Development. \n\nThe course addresses the following key questions: what is early childhood intervention?  What was it, and what has it become?  What are its historical roots in child development research, early childhood education, special education, and maternal and child health?  However, while addressing earlier conceptual issues, this survey course also links these conceptualizations to contemporary developments in the field that are of special significance to educators.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "623. Childhood Interventions. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "658", "description": "658. Developmental Psychopathology. (M) Staff. \n\nInvestigation of etiology, course, prevalence, and implications of functional and physiologic psychopathology, and learning and behavior disorders, among children and adolescents.  Special focus on developmental theory and major clinical and empirical classification systems.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "658. Developmental Psychopathology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "663", "description": "663. Sociocultural Foundations of Applied Psychology. (B) Staff. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 686 Psychological Interventions. \n\nCultural and individual differences and diversity are essential to the work of school and clinical counselors and psychologists.  This course provides a contextual knowledge base and applied understanding for working with socioculturally diverse and underserved populations.  Both intervention and prevention strategies will be addressed.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "663. Sociocultural Foundations of Applied Psychology. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "677", "description": "677. Information and Communications Technologies for Education and Development in Global Perspective. (B) Wagner. \n\nThe importance of the relationshp between education, technology, and social-economic development is increasing in the U.S. and around the world. What are new information and communications technologies (ICTs), how are they being deployed, and for what reasons?  Are new ICTs a means for delivering skill-based or distance education information, and in what ways are they becoming a part of societies today?  What constitute, then, ICTs for Development (ICT4D), and what role do they play in societies that are 'industrialized' and 'developing'.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "677. Information and Communications Technologies for Education and Development in Global Perspective. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "681", "description": "681. History & Systems of Psychology. (M) Staff. \n\nFocuses on the emergence of psychology as a discipline of study by examining the major currents of thought and the dynamic 'time and place' events that have shaped psychology.  A major objective of this course is to provide students with a \"big-picture\" view of psychology (particularly applied psychology) that will sensitize them to major issues and questions that challenge current beliefs and assumptions in psychology today.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "681. History & Systems of Psychology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "685", "description": "685. Career Development. (L) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission of instructor. \n\nCareer development is studied as an aspect of general development theories of educational and vocational choice and adjustment; psychological aspects of occupations.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "685. Career Development. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "686", "description": "686. Psychological Intervention. (A) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Admission to the master's program in Psychological Services. \n\nReview of major counseling theories; introduction to counseling skills, their application in interpersonal communication and the process of change.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "686. Psychological Intervention. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "687", "description": "687. Ethics & Professional Principles in Counseling Psychology. (A) Thomas. \n\nThis course will focus on the professional role of the counselor across settings and across time with discussion of the history of the field and future trends.  In this process we will explore professional identity, role, and relationships. \n\nEthics and their application across situations and professional settings are foundational to our roles as counselors and will be addressed in depth throughout the course.  The goal is to develop an awareness of the boundaries, ethics, and practice roles of the counselor across professional settings.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "687. Ethics & Professional Principles in Counseling Psychology. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "688", "description": "688. Psychological Practicum. (E) Burnes. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 687 AND admission to master's program in Psychological Services.  May be repeated for credit. \n\nSeminar and lab to accompany supervised practicum or apprenticeship experiencesin schools, colleges, or community agencies.  Placement to be arranged by instructor.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "688. Psychological Practicum. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "697", "description": "697. Post-Master's Internship in School Counseling. (A) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Successful completion of the master's program in Psychological Services. \n\nSeminar to accompany post-master's internship.  Meets requirements for certification in school counseling and special education.  Instructor must approve placement.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "697. Post-Master's Internship in School Counseling. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "717", "description": "717. Internship in Professional Counseling & Psychology I. (A) Stanley. Prerequisite(s): Formal admission into Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. Must be taken concurrently with Professional Counseling and Psychology Lab. \n\nThe course will consist of experiential and small group learning, with a focus on practicing and refining skills related to advanced work in psychological services, including the application of various techniques of counseling, ethical considerations, and dritiques of live and simulated counseling sessions through role-playing, audio and visual taping.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "717. Internship in Professional Counseling & Psychology I. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "718", "description": "718. Internship in Professional Counseling & Psychology II. (B) Stanley. Prerequisite(s): Formal admission into Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. \n\nLab seminar group of approximately 7-8 master's students with a seminar group Lab leader is the second component of the PCAP Internship course.  Lab will provide students with exposure to others' experiences in different types of internships, working with a variety of different client populations. \n\n A primary goal of this course is to help each student refine his/her evolving knowledge of self as a provider of psychological services to others.  Students will also evaluate contexts of practice and the professional skills, ethics and practices inherent in effective provision of counseling and psychological services.  This course consists of two components: CLASS MEETINGS, during which the full group will meet to address issues related to work in various internships, as well as discuss the development of advanced counseling skills and issues; and, LAB SEMINAR GROUP, which consists of 7-8 master's students with a seminar group lab leader.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "718. Internship in Professional Counseling & Psychology II. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "725", "description": "725. Advanced Professional Development in Counseling Psychology. (B) Thomas. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 687, formal admission into Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. \n\nThis course will address issues regarding the expectations, role, and identity of the professional counselor.  Topics include the relationships of counselors to other professionals, ethics and legal issues, consultation, credentials, and current trends in the field.  The goal is to develop an advanced understanding of the role of counselors across settings and to begin to prepare for work in the field.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "725. Advanced Professional Development in Counseling Psychology. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "747", "description": "747. Biological Psychology. (M) Staff. \n\nThe biological bases of behavior, including genetics, physiology, endocrinology and bioethology.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "747. Biological Psychology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "764", "description": "764. Cognitive Processes. (A) Frye. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 568 or equivalent. \n\nBasic concepts, theory, and research in cognitive science, problem-solving, psycholinguistics, memory, perception and social cognition.  Special topics may include reading, bilingualism, computer modeling, and cognitive theory applied to education and non-education settings.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "764. Cognitive Processes. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "765", "description": "765. Developmental Deviations. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 560 or equivalent. \n\nTheoretical orientations toward handicapping conditions in children; controversial issues in description and categorization; the relationship of disabilities to developmental (cognitive, social, emotional) processes.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "765. Developmental Deviations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "766", "description": "766. Advanced Professional Psychology Intervention. (A) Nakkula. Prerequisite(s): EDUC 686 Psychological Interventions. \n\nThis course will focus on advanced issues in the clinical practice of professional psychology with children, adolescents and adults where students will practice clinical skills in role-played therapeutic situations.  Students will be using this class as preparation for the formal clinical examination required by all Master of Philosophy in Education students prior to graduation from the Professional Psychology and Counseling program.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "766. Advanced Professional Psychology Intervention. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "782", "description": "782. Advanced Psychological Assessment I. (A) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Admission to Psychological Services or Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. \n\nA critical analysis of tests and clinical methods in assessment as related to theories of intelligence, and includes: 1) factors influencing assessments; 2) assessment theory; 3) assessment practices; 4) interpretations of assessments.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "782. Advanced Psychological Assessment I. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "783", "description": "783. Advanced Psychological Assessment II. (B) Thomas. Prerequisite(s): Admission to Psychological Services or Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. \n\nReview and administration of assessment instruments in the areas of adaptive behavior, perceptual abilities, neurological functioning, diagnostic and achievement measures, vocational interests, and objective personality measures.  Integration and interpretation of results and intervention.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "783. Advanced Psychological Assessment II. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "784", "description": "784. Psychological Consultation. (M) Stevenson. Prerequisite(s): Admission to Psychological Services or Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. \n\nStudy of theories of consultation and their applications at the professional level.  Methods and procedures in applied behavior analysis are introduced as skills for successful consultation.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "784. Psychological Consultation. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "785", "description": "785. Selected Topics in Professional Psychology. (M) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Admission to Psychological Services or Professional Counseling and Psychology M.Phil.Program. \n\nConsideration of research and theory, on selected advanced topics.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "785. Selected Topics in Professional Psychology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "860", "description": "SM 860. Proseminar in Interdisciplinary Studies in Human Development (ISHD). (A) Spencer. Corequisite(s): May be repeated for credit. \n\nReview of literature on representative developmental topics.  The course also incorporates guest lecturers to present research and theorizing covering different aspects of human learning and development.  The experience represents an important opportunity for ongoing professinal development.  May be repeated for credit.  Nonetheless, doctoral students are expected to attend the presentations throughout their doctoral training career even if not enrolled in the course for credit.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "860. Proseminar in Interdisciplinary Studies in Human Development (ISHD). (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "960", "description": "960. Advanced Research in Human Learning and Development. (M) Staff. \n\nSelected topics from human learning, human development, cognitive processes, social psychology, and personality.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "960. Advanced Research in Human Learning and Development. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "980", "description": "SM 980. Research Seminar in Psychology in Education. (L) Turner. \n\nThis course is designed to position students to acquire a more sophisticated understanding of research methods in order to conduct and critically evaluate empirical research in applied and clinical settings.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "980. Research Seminar in Psychology in Education. (L)"}, null, null, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "646", "description": "646. PIIC: Crit Rding/Writ.", "title": "646. PIIC: Crit Rding/Writ."}, null, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "504", "description": "504. Contemporary Issues in Higher Education. (B) Staff. \n\nAn introduction to the central issues and management problems in contemporary American higher education.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "504. Contemporary Issues in Higher Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "505", "description": "SM 505. Globalization & The University. (B) Ruby. \n\nThis course examines some of the interactions between globalization and the university including increased student mobility and the rise of higher education as a trade good.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "505. Globalization & The University. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "512", "description": "512. University-Community Partnerships. (B) Grossman. \n\nRanging from civic engagement to economic development, institutions of higher education in the United States have long been involved in a variety of relationships with their local communities; in recent years, there has been increasing attention paid to the opportunities and challenges implicit in those relationships.  In this course, students will study and discuss the history, rationales, and manifestations of the partnerships that have developed.  Through readings, faculty- and student-led discussions, guest lecturers, and policy-oriented projects, students will develop better understandings of the many topics surrounding university-community partnership activities.  Among other themes we will consider institutional roles and relationships, service learning, community perspectives, policy issues, and evaluation.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "512. University-Community Partnerships. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "541", "description": "541. Access & Choice in American Higher Education. (M) Perna. \n\nCollege enrollment is a complex process that is shaped by the economic, social and policy context, higher education institutions, K-12 schools, families, and students.  The course will examine the theoretical perspectives that are used to understand college access and choice processes.  The implications of various policies and practices for college access and choice will also be explored, with particular attention to the effects of these policies for underrepresented groups. \n\nAs an Academically Based Community Service (ABCS) course, this course is also designed to generate tangible recommendations that program administrators and institutional leaders may be used to improve college access and choice.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "541. Access & Choice in American Higher Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "542", "description": "542. Management in Higher Education. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course is an introduction to management issues and practices in higher education.  It is designed to provide students with working understanding of both the role of administration within the culture of higher education and the contemporary issues related to management of fiscal, personnel, facilities, and information resources.  The interface between administrative and academic decision-making will be explored within these contexts and case studies will be used to highlight the concepts.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "542. Management in Higher Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(AFRC545)", "num": "543", "description": "SM 543. (AFRC545) Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Current and Historical Issues. (A) Gasman. \n\nStudents taking this course will learn about the historical context of HBCUs in educating African Americans, and how their role has changed since the mid- 1800's.  Specific contemporary challenges and successes related to HBCUs will be covered and relate to control, and enrollment, accreditation, funding, degree completionk, and outreach/retention programming.  Students will become familiar with MBCUs in their own right, as well as in comparison to other postsecondary institutions.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "543. (AFRC545) Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Current and Historical Issues. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "556", "description": "556. Higher Education Finance. (B) Perna. \n\nDesigned for non-financial managers, this course provides students with an introduction to basic concepts related to the finance of higher education.  It examines the forces that influence the financing of higher education at both the state and federal levels.  It addresses both the macro-economic and micro-economic issues related to higher education finance.  In addition, students will be introduced to issues related to institutional finance.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "556. Higher Education Finance. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "569", "description": "569. Administration of Student Life. (A) Staff. \n\nThis course covers a variety of issues in the management of student services on campus.  After examining the historical context of student affairs and the theoretical frameworks of student development, students explore ways to most effectively administer the numerous activities that comprise student affairs programs.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "569. Administration of Student Life. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "573", "description": "SM 573. Reforming Higher Education: What Can We Learn from Other Countries?. (A) Ruby. \n\nThis course examines the proposition that policy makers, educational leaders and practitioners can learn from what has worked and failed in higher education policy and practice in other nations.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "573. Reforming Higher Education: What Can We Learn from Other Countries?. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "589", "description": "589. Budgeting and Resource Allocation. (M) Staff. \n\nA computer-based introduction to the management of resources (money, people, space, etc.) at colleges and universities.  Does not require accounting or financial skills.  Emphasis is on learning how to use the budget to link educational purposes and financial outcomes.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "589. Budgeting and Resource Allocation. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "592", "description": "592. Professional Development in Higher Education. (B) Boverini. \n\nTo prepare for a career in higher education, students are engaged in a 20-hour a week assistantship in the field.  This course complements and enhances the graduate assistantship.  Emphasizing practical application of theory and skill development, the course does the following: provides students with tools to embark on a successful job search; offers networking opportunities with administrators in higher education; and introduces students to relevant and timely literature and resources in higher education professional development.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "592. Professional Development in Higher Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "594", "description": "594. Diversity in Higher Education. (B) Gasman. \n\nThis course explores issues of diversity as they pertain to higher education, including race, ethnicity, gender, class, religion, sexual orientation, ideology, etc.  Rather than focusing on specific populations of people, the course will tackle issues of diversity within the context of concrete higher education functions and problems.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "594. Diversity in Higher Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "606", "description": "606. Development in Higher Education. (B) Gasman. \n\nThis course is designed for current aspiring professions in the area of fundraising and institutional advancement. \n\nTopics will include: a history and overview of philanthropy, motivations for giving, ethics, fundraising courses, leadership, annual giving, public relations, and volunteer management. Special emphasis will be placed on fundraising in communities of color.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "606. Development in Higher Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "607", "description": "607. Faculty and Academic Governance. (A) Hartley. \n\nIntroduction to selected issues pertaining to faculty and academic governance, such as: Who governs American colleges and universities?  What are the respective roles of the president, the board of trustees, the faculty, and students in institutional decision making?  The course will also explore key contemporary governance issues.  The course will emphasize student involvement in learning through small group work, case study discussions, and role playing.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "607. Faculty and Academic Governance. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "608", "description": "608. Organizational Change in Higher Education. (M) Hartley. \n\nColleges and universities today face tremendous challenges--calls by external constituents for greater accountability, scarcity of resources, greater competition, and pedagogical innovations.  The need for change, and for change agents, in our institutions of higher learning has never been greater.  This course examines organizational change both theoretically and practically in college and university settings.  Students will be introduced to many of the most current, influential, and promising theories about how change occurs at the departmental, institutional and system level.  Using case studies, we will apply these frameworks in order to diagnose and develop constructive strategies for meaningful change.  Students will be evaluated on the basis of class participation and three written assignments.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "608. Organizational Change in Higher Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "631", "description": "631. Research Topics. (B) Gasman. Prerequisite(s): Permission needed from department. \n\nThis seminar offers students a collaborative setting in which to explore a topical area, craft a literature review and refine their research questions. The course will be of special interest to doctoral candidates who are draqwn to an area of inquiry (e.g., presidential leadership, diversity, access, organizational change) but now wish to elicit from it a discrete \"researchable\" question.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "631. Research Topics. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "640", "description": "640. History of American Higher Education. (A) Gasman. \n\nThis interactive course focuses on the history of American higher education from the Colonial period through the current day.  An emphasis is placed on underrepresented institutions and individuals.  Students will have the opportunity to make connections between historical trends and movements and current issues.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "640. History of American Higher Education. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "642", "description": "642. Higher Education in American Society. (A) Perna. \n\nOur nation's colleges and universities are affected by social, economic, and political forces.  Societal forces impose a variety of demand on higher education institutions, as reflected by calls for greater accountability, improved access, cost containment, and incorporation of new technologies. This course considers the ways that colleges and universities are challenged to respond to demands for increased accountability while maintaining their commitment to such core values as academic freedom and institutional autonomy.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "642. Higher Education in American Society. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "656", "description": "656. College and University Teaching. (C) Gasman. Prerequisite(s): Doctoral students only. \n\nIn this class, students will learn how to systematically plan for a university course, develop a teaching philosophy, create a course syllabus relevant to their discipline and expertise, design and implement evaluation instruments to assess teaching and learning, experiment with a range of technologies to advance teaching, and participate in a teaching simulation.  This course also incorporates issues of diversity with regard to teaching.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "656. College and University Teaching. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "704", "description": "704. Economics of Higher Education. (M) Staff. \n\nCovers selected topics in the economics of higher education, including investment and consumption theories, cost functions, university investment practices and principles, and academic labor markets.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "704. Economics of Higher Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "705", "description": "705. Proseminar in Research & Analysis. (A) Hartley. Prerequisite(s): Permission needed from department. \n\nThis course is designed to provide students with the skills, information, and resources that are necessary to develop a research proposal.  This course will also examine strategies for completing proposals and dissertations.  A variety of research designs and approaches to educational research will be explored. Through this course, students will become both informed consumers of research and effective designers of research.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "705. Proseminar in Research & Analysis. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "714", "description": "714. Law and Higher Education. (B) Roth. \n\nAn examination of the most important state and federal laws governing U.S. colleges and universities, with an emphasis on current legal problems.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "714. Law and Higher Education. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "715", "description": "715. Case Studies in Higher Education Administration. (M) Staff. \n\nThis course is designed to enhance understanding of decision making in higher education administration.  Based on case studies, students will analyze, propose policies, generate action plans and implementation procedures, and assess the potential consequences of their administrative decisions.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "715. Case Studies in Higher Education Administration. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "716", "description": "716. Public Policy Issues in Higher Education. (M) Staff. \n\nA study of the most influential federal and state policies, legislation and practices affecting colleges and universities.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "716. Public Policy Issues in Higher Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "751", "description": "751. Quantitative Research Methods in Education. (M) Staff. \n\nAn introduction to the interpretation and use of data about higher education through the use of computer-assisted methods of statistical analysis. Emphasis is on the implications for educational policy and research design.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "751. Quantitative Research Methods in Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "803", "description": "803. Readings in Higher Education. (A) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Permission needed from department. \n\nStudents will study four distinct approaches to the study of higher education in the United States.  Students will examine a major work that exemplifies this approach and study how this work has been critiqued by other scholars within that approach.  In addition, students will be introduced to the strengths and weaknesses of the logic by which each approach's interpretations are verified.  Finally, students will apply the critical skills developed to a series of additional studies of higher education in the United States.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "803. Readings in Higher Education. (A) "}]