[null, null, null, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(PSCI139)", "num": "139", "description": "SM 139. (PSCI139) Poverty and Development in the United States. (B) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Summers. \n\nThis academically based community service seminar will explore the ideas and theories, alliances and opposition that have shaped policy and organizing efforts addressed to the problems associated with urban poverty in the United States. \n\nStudents will evaluate contemporary policy debates and programs in the light of selected historical case studies and their own experience working with community groups, institutions and federal groups in West Philadelphia. A focus on the role of leadership in politics, theory, insitutions and organizing efforts will include several guest speakers.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "139. (PSCI139) Poverty and Development in the United States. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "(PSCI240)", "num": "240", "description": "SM 240. (PSCI240) Religion and U.S.  Public Policy. (D) DiIulio. \n\nReligion matters politically in America, and always has.  Religious ideas----and ideas about religion-punctuate both early debates about the U.S. Constitution and present-day debates about civil rights and civil liberties. Religion influences opinion, voting, and lawmaking.  Religious congregations, service agencies, and charities, many with public funding, predominate in the nation's vast and growing nonprofit sector.  Religious leaders influence U.S. public policy and programs, both domestic and international.  This seminar explores the historical, intellectual, constitutional, electoral, and institutional dimensions of religious leadership and U.S. public policy.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "240. (PSCI240) Religion and U.S.  Public Policy. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(PSCI138)", "num": "490", "description": "490. (PSCI138) Policymaking in the US. (A) Martinez. \n\nThis course is an opportunity for students to combine the major theoretical perspectives on the policy process with a comprehensive understanding of the actors that influence policymaking and politics.  In the first half of the semester, the major theories of public policy making will be explored.  In the second halfof the semester, the actors in the policy making process will be identified and placed in the context of the policy making models identified earlier in the course. \n\nStudents will compare and contrast existing theoretical models and through writing assignments will apply the theory to current policy events.  The course is designed to complement an internship in the public policy arena, providing context and background that will enrich the internship experience.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "490. (PSCI138) Policymaking in the US. (A)"}, null, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "589", "description": "589. Policy Development. (B) Kettl/Pearson. \n\nThis course examines the policy development process including: the interaction of branches of government; policy analysis; information; constituencies; and management of a policy development office.  The objective of this course is to provide an understanding of the development of government policy, both at the macro level and from the viewpoint of persons who are in supporting roles to the major actors in the process.  The formula employed to achieve this objective consists of a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, and activities that are designed to blend conceptual and practical skills.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "589. Policy Development. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "621", "description": "621. Economic Analysis in the Public Sector. (D) Madden/Perrins. \n\nThis course provides students with the knowledge required to understand government operations in relation to the market economy.  In theory of supply and demand, students explore the pricing mechanism, price elasticity, and the effects of price controls on markets.  Efficiency is examined in connection with competition and again in connection with equity, and market failure is considered as a reason for government intervention.  Cost-benefit analysis is examined in the context of selecting among public investment alternatives. The course also assists students in addressing issues connected with local public goods and economic development.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "621. Economic Analysis in the Public Sector. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "631", "description": "631. Politics, Policy, and Public Service. (D) Mulhern. \n\nThis course is designed to orient students to the constraints that characterize leadership and management in the public service.  The course traces the origins of these constraints, illustrates their durability, and suggests ways in which public agents may deal with them more effectively.  Key historical documents and recent classics are examined for their bearing on contemporary views on topics such as public goods, the role of science in governing, individualism and the theory of rights, factions and interest groups.  The main areas of inquiry are the environment of public service, policy analysis, politics, and political realism.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "631. Politics, Policy, and Public Service. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "703", "description": "L/L 703. Statistics for Public Leadership. (D) Pearson/Perrins. \n\nThis course will present students with the tools to use statistical information to analyze and measure the performance of public programs.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "703. Statistics for Public Leadership. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "722", "description": "722. Budgeting and Financial Management for Public and Nonprofit Entities. (D) Sedehi. \n\nIn this course, students will gain an enhanced appreciation of the ways in which well conceived planning, competently executed budget construction, budget monitoring, and financial management can improve the effectiveness of public and non-profit entities.  Through a combination of practical analyses, research paper, and the construction of a complete budget for a mid-size city, the sudents will become facile with general budgeting concepts and approaches, revenue projections, expenditure analysis and planning, capital expenditures, and establishing budgetary and financial controls.  By including multiple oral presentations, written research report, extensive teamwork, and formal defense of budget submissions, the course is designed to enhance analytical review and comfort with budgetary information along with developing critical financial leadership skills.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "722. Budgeting and Financial Management for Public and Nonprofit Entities. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "(PSCI503)", "num": "732", "description": "732. (PSCI503) Public Management. (D) DeSeve/Mulhern. \n\nIn this course, students focus on bureaucracy and related institutional features of government.  Differences in organizational culture are examined along with their implications for public managers.  Students establish an understanding of leadership issues including incentives, performance, accountability, and program management.  Four areas of inquiry are pursued: bureaucracy, centralization and decentralization, performance, and privatization.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "732. (PSCI503) Public Management. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "735", "description": "735. Performance Management. (D) Botwinik/Golda. \n\nHow can leaders manage performance and make decisions that lead to desired outcomes such as less crime, better education, or lower unit costs?  This course examines the various ways that public sector organizations can use data to plan strategically, manage risk, and monitor performance.  Students will learn about the theory behind performance measurement and risk management, as well as the benefits, challenges, and limitations of performance management.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "735. Performance Management. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "783", "description": "783. Public Financial Management. (D) Mullin. \n\nThis course prepares students to manage cash and debt in the public sector through a study of theory and operations. \n\nWhere public finance differs from corporate finance, the difference is highlighted.  Students examine current financial management techniques from a strategic perspective and learn to identify the impacts on economic development of tax policies as well as of capital projects which may draw on both public and private sources of funds. The course focuses on five main areas of inquiry: public finance theory and practice; government finance functions; public pensions, enterprises and revenue analysis; municipal bonds; and special project financing.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "783. Public Financial Management. (D)"}, null, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "502", "description": "SM 502. Public Speaking. Benedict. \n\nSuccessful leaders must be able to convey their integrity and their ideas, their vision and their values clearly and convincingly in public settings.  By analyzing great political speeches and affording students the opportunity to prepare and deliver different types of speeches, this course teaches the fundamentals of persuasive public speaking while encouraging students to develop their own voice.  This is a performance course.  Students will gain skill and confidence in their speech writing and public speaking skills through practice, peer feedback, and extensive professional coaching. \n\nClass lectures and discussions will focus on persuasive stragegies and techniques for handling community meetings, Q and A sessions, and interactions with the media.", "title": "502. Public Speaking."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CLST310)", "num": "510", "description": "SM 510. (CLST310) Ancient and Modern Constitutionmaking. (B) Mulhern. \n\nThis course looks to the constitutionmaking tradition as it developed from classical antiquity forward in an attempt to understand the causes of relative success.  Students read representative Greek and Latin texts in translation and trace the influence of this tradition into modern times, ending with contemporary constitutionmaking efforts in Europe, Central Asia, and the Middle East.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "510. (CLST310) Ancient and Modern Constitutionmaking. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "515", "description": "515. Public Finance Investment Banking. (B) Genyk. \n\nThis course examines the field of public finance in theory and in practice. The purpose of the course is to provide a detailed understanding of the many facets of and applications of finance in the public sector with a focus on public finance investment banking.  The course will provide students with a broad-based and technical overview of public finance and municipal bonds as well as a thorough understanding of the business of public finance.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "515. Public Finance Investment Banking. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "520", "description": "520. Nonprofits and Social Entrepreneurism. (A) Guard. \n\nThis course, taught by the Philadelphia Award winner (2005), introduces students to the many layers of entrepreneurism involved in successfully running a nonprofit that aims to tackle new missions.  Students will learn key lessons for starting or restructuring an organization, for funding the organization, and for impacting social, economic, and other ills in new and novel ways.  They will also learn how to avoid common mistakes made by leaders of young, threatened, or restructuring organizations.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "520. Nonprofits and Social Entrepreneurism. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "521", "description": "521. Fundraising for Nonprofits. (B) Pearson. \n\nThis course provides students with concepts and tools that can help nonprofit organizations better achieve their organizational objectives by securing the resouces necessary to do so.  Students will, for example, learn how to assess an organization's fundraising capabilities, conduct an annual fund drive, solicit grants from corporations and foundations, conduct prospect research, cultivate and secure major gifts, design planned giving instruments to meet the needs of donors, carry out a capital campaign, and set up information technologies to track fundraising efforts and assist you in the stewardship of gifts.  The course is also designed as a study guide for taking (and passing) the examination required to become a Certified Fundraising Executive (CFRE) by the Association of Fundraising Professionals (AFP).\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "521. Fundraising for Nonprofits. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "528", "description": "528. Marketing for Nonprofit and Government Organizations. (A) Pearson. \n\nThis course provides students with the concepts and tools to help nonprofit and government organizations market their programs and services.  The course emphasizes applications, and students will complete a marketing plan during the course for a nonprofit organization or government agency of their choice. Students will learn how to conduct competitive analyses, benchmarking, market segmentation and client needs; explore opportunities for social research on client needs; explore opportunities for social entrepreneurship and product development; and design effective Web and direct marketing tactics as part of an overall promotion and packaging strategy.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "528. Marketing for Nonprofit and Government Organizations. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "530", "description": "530. Leadership and Politics. (B) Conti. \n\nThis course is a review of Pennsylvania politics and state government, predomintantly through govenors and political leaders, from the turn of the century to the present.  This course will take a look at Pennsylvania history to understand how the state developed with such political diversity. Pennsylvania state government, with its numerous levels and strong local control will be studied and policy issues of yesterday and today will be reviewed. \n\n Current and former public officials will visit some classes as guest lecturers.  Government relations experts from government and the private sector will also provide valuable insight into the Pennsylvania state goverment process.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "530. Leadership and Politics. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "532", "description": "532. Big City Politics: How to Pass Municipal Legislation. (A) Kenney and Hawkins. \n\nThis class explores how city administrators and legislatures have addressed the critical issues facing urban America today, including fighting urban blight and transforming neighborhoods, public school funding, public financing of sports stadiums, reducing the tax burden, public health issues like smoking bans, legislative redistricting, crime and safety issues, campaign finance finance reform, economic development issues like tax increment financing, race relations, welfare reform, public transportation, and how to reverse job and population losses.  The goal is to place in context the various ways that elected officials approach complex issues, towards a more realistic understanding of how to influence a proposal as it works its way through the process towards implementation.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "532. Big City Politics: How to Pass Municipal Legislation. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "560", "description": "560. Women Leaders and Emerging Democracies. (C) Margolies. \n\nIn this course you will explore ways to provide women with practical, 'real world' skills--political and community organizing, communications, fundraising, advocacy and media experience--that will enable them to achieve meaningful political, economic, and civic participation in the life of their countries.  Students may also be involved with an international trip with Women's Campaign International.  The course is designed to give the theoretical background and tools to put together an insightful international training to politically empower women.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "560. Women Leaders and Emerging Democracies. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "561", "description": "561. Dealing with the Media. (C) Margolies. \n\nThis course explores the role of media in politics and discusses strategies for using media resources for greatest effect. \n\nThe design of the course allows for a flexible workshop format and includes guest lectures by media personalities and politicians as well as a trip to meet with media professionals in Washington.  The course also provides regular opportunities for students to implement what they have learned through in-class media trainings, mock editorial board interviews, governing strategy scenarios, campaign strategy scenarios, and political advertisement assessments.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "561. Dealing with the Media. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(URBS451)", "num": "569", "description": "569. (URBS451) The Politics of Housing and Urban Development. (A) Kromer. \n\nThis course offers an exploration of how legislative action, government policymaking and citizen advocacy influence plans for the investment of public capital in distressed urban downtowns and neighborhoods.  A special emphasis this year will be the Obama Administration's response to the foreclosure crisis and the implementation of neighborhood reinvestment strategies by state and local governments.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "569. (URBS451) The Politics of Housing and Urban Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "626", "description": "SM 626. Developing, Managing, and Leading Talent for Nonprofit and Government Organizations. (M) Nunery. \n\nThis course will take a holistic approach in exploring the critical issues that impact how your organization recruits, hires, develops, and assesses its pool of talent.  Students will examine a range of economic, legal, social, technological, and political factors that affect the management of today's workforce, with attention paid to the particular challenges facing public and nonprofit sector leaders.  There will be special focus on organizing volunteers, working with unions, providing effective professional development opportunities, and other human resource strategies that drive better results.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "626. Developing, Managing, and Leading Talent for Nonprofit and Government Organizations. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "652", "description": "652. Auditing Government Performance. (A) Maurer. \n\nTopics covered include auditing principles, performance audits, and financial audits.  Guest lecturers from the PA Department of the Auditor General visited the fall 2007 class.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "652. Auditing Government Performance. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "713", "description": "713. The Practice of Economic Development. (A) Thornburgh. \n\nThis course analyzes and challenges strategies for encouraging economic growth nationally and in states and metropolitan areas, with the goal of helping students become effective practitioners of the art.  After reviewing key concepts and context, the course will ask students to evaluate and make choices about economic strategies and investments in a political context.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "713. The Practice of Economic Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "715", "description": "715. Local Elective Politics. (B) Kenney and Hawkins. \n\nThis course explores how people get elected to public offices in city government.  Success in getting elected may depend as much upon political institutions, processes, and people as upon the issues, interests and values that appear to be at stake.  This course studies both, with special attention to a set of congressional and local government contests in the Philadelphia area.  We will focus on the tools needed to run for a big city office in the 21st century, and feature guest appearances from media consultants, press secretaries, pollsters, and other political professionals to help you learn how to use these campaign tools properly.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "715. Local Elective Politics. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "716", "description": "716. Campaign Management: How to Run and Win. (A) Smith. \n\nThis is a practical course designed to impart the elements of a successful political campaign for public office to the student.  Study will focus on the local campaign and how it is planned, organized, executed and funded.  Local practitioners will augment course sessions to provide interaction between the student and those who have successfully run campaigns, raised funds, and been elected.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "716. Campaign Management: How to Run and Win. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "725", "description": "725. Development Projects in Cities. (B) Hartling. \n\nThis is a skill-based course, teaching students how to conduct market studies and to determine operational, physical, and financial feasibility of urban and economic development proposals.  It gives specific attention to feasibility studies for retail, hotel, industrial, and office development projects.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "725. Development Projects in Cities. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "727", "description": "727. Managing Public Funds. (A) olanipekun-Lewis. \n\nThis course will focus on the theory and practic of managing public sector investment assets.  The course will examine cash management, pension fund management, project and construction fund investment vehicles, longer-term asset management and other aspects of treasury management.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "727. Managing Public Funds. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "729", "description": "729. Financial Management of Nonprofit Institutions. (B) Bencivenga. \n\nThe course is designed to provide the student with an understanding of the primary financial management issues and decisions that confront senior management in nonprofits and government.  Students will examine financial analysis techniques from both a practical and strategic perspective as they examine operating and capital decisions.  The objective of the course is to allow the student to understand how managers integrate the various discrete financial decisions within a broader framework that allows them to analyze, develop and execute a coherent overall financial strategy.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "729. Financial Management of Nonprofit Institutions. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "748", "description": "748. Foundations and Grant Management. (L) Burd. \n\nThis course will provide students with the role of the foundation in philanthropy, what it does, how it does it, and what you need to know to be both an effective foundation manager and foundation grant seeker.  From the foundation side, the course will include strategic planning, assessment of project resultes, and the responsibilities of the foundation grant program officer.  From the grant seeker side, it will include identifying the appropriate foundations, making the connection to the foundation, grant writing, and relationship management.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "748. Foundations and Grant Management. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "749", "description": "749. Leading Nonprofit Organizations. (D) McKenna. \n\nThis course will provide an analysis of the nonprofit sector in relation to public and for-profit organizations focusing on building the six core organizational competencies that are essential to a successful nonprofit.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "749. Leading Nonprofit Organizations. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "761", "description": "761. Government Relations (Lobbying). (A) Weinberg and Nixon. \n\nIn a system of representative government, organizations and individuals with interests at stake often seek the support of a government relations professional.This course addresses government relations from the varying perspectives of the current or aspiring professional, the client, and the government official.  It is designed to provide the students with an introduction to government affairs and lobbying at the local, state and federal levels of government and to illustrate how lobbying and the lobbyists shape and affect public policy.  The course is not designed as ahow to in lobby ing, but rather it is designed to expose students to lobbying and more importantly, the lobbying process.  To that end, students will draw on many disciplines such as psychology, law, history, political science, urban affairs, economics, foreign policy, domestic policy and others, to understand the complex mosaic of the lobbying and legislative process.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "761. Government Relations (Lobbying). (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "792", "description": "792. Contracting for Public Services. (B) Nadol and Neiderman. \n\nThis course examines how different strategies of ownership affect the performance of programs.  This course explores the different forms of privatization, including asset sales, deregulation, and public sector contracting; ownership and managerial behavior; state-owned enterprises and mixed-ownership enterprises; US and overseas experience; and techniques and politics of privatization.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "792. Contracting for Public Services. (B) "}]