[null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR805, LAW 741)", "num": "205", "description": "205. (INSR805, LAW 741) Risk Management. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThis course describes the concepts and techniques available to corporations, non-profit organizations, and other organizations in their efforts to manage pure risks.  The costs associated with such pure risks as product liability, environmental impairments, property losses, work-related injuries, and employee benefits (e.g., pensions, health insurance, etc.) affect the daily management of organizations.  Managers who make decisions without appropriate consideration of risk management issues can jeopardize the long-term survival of their organizations.  The course examines a common set of techniques which can be used by managers in dealing with these problems, including risk assumption, prevention, diversification, and transfer via insurance and non-insurance market mechanisms.  In turn, students learn to recognize that the institutional structure of the organization itself influence its own risks and their corresponding treatments.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "205. (INSR805, LAW 741) Risk Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR835)", "num": "210", "description": "210. (INSR835) Financial Strategies and Analysis: Insurance. (C) Kartasheva. Prerequisite(s): Good understanding of capital markets, insurance markets, and statistics. \n\nThis course is designed to apply and expand upon the theories and methodologies taught in finance to the complex and specific needs of managing financial risk in the insurance enterprise.  The types of financial risks that today's insurance professionals faxe come from both the asset and liability sides of the balance sheet and thus reuqire a wide range of modeling tools. Concurrently, the tools used in the modeling of interest-rate risk, equity risk, and default risk have become incresingly important in an era of increasing convergence between the insurance industry and financial capital markets.  This course will introduce several risk management models designed to allow insurance professional to mesure and manage each source of risk.  We develop and critique theoretical models for each type of risk while strong emphasis is placed on the implementation and calibration of various modesl. Projects include the risk management and pricing of Variable Equity Indexed Annuities and Guaranteed Investment Contracts. \n\n This course is intended for students with concentration(s) in Insurance, Finance, and Actuarial Science considering a career in the insurance industry or financial services sector.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "210. (INSR835) Financial Strategies and Analysis: Insurance. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR822, INSR922)", "num": "221", "description": "221. (INSR822, INSR922) Employee Benefit Plan Design and Financing. (C) Mitchell. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nLarge U.S. employers devote up to 40% of payroll on non-wage benefits, and in other countries, the ratio is higher. \n\nWhat rationales justify such a substantial budget commitment to employee benefits?  How are benefit packages designed and how do they evolve to achieve multiple ends?  Course units cover aspects of life insurance, health and disability insurance, and deferred compensation plans along with the economic consequences of and regulatory environment shaping each.  Executive compensation is also covered.  This course is useful to anyone interested in health care, insurance and retirement planning, for either professional or personal reasons.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "221. (INSR822, INSR922) Employee Benefit Plan Design and Financing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR823)", "num": "222", "description": "222. (INSR823) Business Insurance and Estate Planning. (C) Hallman. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThis course presents an analysis of overall private wealth management.  This includes planning for disposition of closely-held business interests; the impact of income taxes and other transfer costs on business interests and other assets; integration of life insurance, disability insurance, medical benefits, and long-term care insurance in the financial plan; planning for concentrated asset (e.g., common stock) positions, diversification techniques, and asset allocation strategies; distribution of retirement assets; lifetime giving and estate planning; and analysis of current developments in the creation, conservation, and distribution of estates.  Attention also is given to various executive compensation techniques (including restricted stock and stock options) and planning for various employee benefits.  The course also covers sophisticated charitable giving techniques and methods for financing education expenses.  Readings consist of textbook, case studies, and bulk pack articles. \n\n This course should be attractive to most students to help them plan for their own or their families' financial affairs. \n\nIt also should be particularly attractive to students specializing in entrepreneurship, wealth management finance, and law.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "222. (INSR823) Business Insurance and Estate Planning. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR825)", "num": "230", "description": "230. (INSR825) Managing Pure Risks: Operations and Markets. (A) staff. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThis course deals with property-liability insurance company financial management \"alternative market\" mechanisms for managing pure risks such as captive insurance companies, and the securitization of risk-linked bonds and other instruments.  It involves extensive discussion of insurance company financial strategies including investments, asset- liability management, value-at-risk, capital estimation, and financial reporting.  Additional topics include product distribution and marketing systems, underwriting operations and policy, reinsurance, rate-making and reserves, claims, accounting, and other functions of insurance risk pools.  The regulation and taxation of insurance and captive insurance companies are also covered.  A number of public policy issues affecting the management of property-liability insurers are discussed including: insurer solvency and state guarantee funds, discrimination in property-liability insurance pricing, the effect of the underwriting cycles, and the convergence of the financial services sector. The characteristics of the property-liability insurance industry also are studied within the framework of the financial services industry.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "230. (INSR825) Managing Pure Risks: Operations and Markets. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(INSR827, INSR927)", "num": "232", "description": "232. (INSR827, INSR927) Risk Management and Treatment. (B) staff. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nNature and objectives of corporate risk management.  Primary consideration devoted to the recognition, evaluation, and treatment of pure risks to which the corporation is exposed.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "232. (INSR827, INSR927) Risk Management and Treatment. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR829)", "num": "251", "description": "251. (INSR829) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science I. (A) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): One semester of calculus. \n\nThis course is the usual entry point in the actuarial science program.  It is required for students who plan to concentrate or minor in actuarial science. It can also be taken by others interested in the mathematics of personal finance and the use of mortality tables.  For future actuaries, it provides the necessary knowledge of compound interest and its applications, and basic life contingencies definition to be used throughout their studies. Non-actuaries will be introduced to practical applications of finance mathematics, such as loan amortization and bond pricing, and premium calculation of typical life insurance contracts.  Main topics include annuities, loans and bonds; basic principles of life contingencies and determination of annuity and insurance benefits and premiums.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "251. (INSR829) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science I. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(INSR830)", "num": "252", "description": "252. (INSR830) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science II. (B) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): INSR 251. \n\nThis specialized course is usually only taken by Wharton students who plan to concentrate in actuarial science and Penn students who plan to minor in actuarial mathematics.  It provides a comprehensive analysis of advanced life contingencies problems such as reserving, multiple life functions, multiple decrement theory with application to the valuation of pension plans.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "252. (INSR830) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science II. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR833)", "num": "253", "description": "253. (INSR833) Actuarial Statistics. (A) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): Math 140-141 or equivalent, Stat 101-102 or 430-431 or equivalent. \n\nThis course covers models for insurer's losses, and applications of Markov chains.  Poisson processes, including extensions such as non-homogeneous, compound, and mixed Poisson processes are studied in detail.  The compound model is then used to establish the distribution of losses.  An extensive section on Markov chains provides the theory to forecast future states of the process, as well as numerous applications of Markov chains to insurance, finance, and genetics.  The course is abundantly illustrated by examples from the insurance and finance literature.  While most of the students taking the course are future actuaries, other students interested in applications of statistics may discover in class many fascinating applications of stochastic processes and Markov chains.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "253. (INSR833) Actuarial Statistics. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(INSR831)", "num": "260", "description": "260. (INSR831) Applied Statistical Methods for Actuaries. (B) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): One semester of probability. \n\nOne half of the course is devoted to the study of time series, including ARIMA modeling and forecasting.  The other half studies modifications in random variables due to deductibles, co-payments, policy limits, and elements of simulation.  This course is a possible entry point into the actuarial science program.  No INSR coure is a pre-requisite for INSR 831.  The Society of Actuaries has approved INSR 831 for VEE credit on the topic of time series.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "260. (INSR831) Applied Statistical Methods for Actuaries. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "299", "description": "299. Independent Study. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "299. Independent Study. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR205, LAW 741)", "num": "805", "description": "805. (INSR205, LAW 741) Risk Management. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): None. None. \n\nThis course describes the concepts and techniques available to corporations, non-profit organizations and other organizations in their efforts to manage pure risks.  The costs associated with such pure risks as product liability, environmental impairments, property losses, work-related injuries, and employee benefits (e.g., pensions, health insurance, etc.) affect the daily management of organizations.  Managers who make decisions without appropriate consideration of risk management issues can jeopardize the long-term survival of their organizations.  The course examines a common set of techniques which can be used by managers in dealing with these problems, including risk assumption, prevention, diversification, and transfer via insurance and non-insurance market mechanisms.  In turn, students learn to recognize that the institutional structure of the organization itself influence its own risks and their corresponding treatments.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "805. (INSR205, LAW 741) Risk Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "811", "description": "811. Risk and Crisis Management. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThe success of any firm depends jointly on its ability to create value and on its ability to preserve value.  The creation of value arises when a firm is able to identify and execute investments with a positive net present value. The creation of value invariably exposes the firm to risk and this value can easily be jeopardized.  A fall in demand for its product, a sudden rise in production or financing costs, a technological failure, destruction of assets or information, a liability suit, or the activities of a rogue trader, each can squander the value created.  In extreme cases these risky possibilities can bankrupt the firm.  Risk management is becoming increasingly important and firms are devoting increasing time, attention and resources to deriving strategies for preserving value.  These strategies include, hedging, insurance, contingent financing and changes in organizational design which make the firm more robust to shocks.  Risk and Crisis Management will look at these and related strategies.  (Mini course - 6 weeks).\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "811. Risk and Crisis Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "812", "description": "812. Markets for Pure Risk. (C) Cummins. Prerequisite(s): Basic microecnomics and finance. \n\nThis course examines the supply side of global markets for pure risks.  Pure risks can be broadly defined as risks that are beyond the core competencies of the majority of firms in the economy.  These are risks that must be managed or avoided in order to enable management to add value by focusing on the firm's primary activity.  An important category of pure risks encompasses those risks that traditionally were managed by purchasing insurance - the risk of reduction of firm value due to fires, natural disasters, liability lawsuits, work injuries, and other types of accidents or legal actions. \n\nHowever, pure risks also include other sources of volatility that have not traditionally been traded in insurance markets. \n\nThe latter category includes weather risk, credit risk, and foreign exchange risk, among others.  The course examines insurance and financial markets, \"alternative market\" approaches to dealing with pure risks such as captive insurance companies, the global market for reinsurance, and markets for securitized risk products such as catastrophe bonds, mortality index bonds, and life insurance reserve financing securitizations. \n\n This course is intended to complement Insurance 811,\"Risk and Crisis Management.\" INSR 811 focuses on how firms can use various types of hedging instruments to manage pure risks, i.e, its emphasis is primarily on the demand side of makets for pure risks, whereas INSR 812 examines the supply side of these markets. (Mini course - 6 weeks)\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "812. Markets for Pure Risk. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR221, INSR922)", "num": "822", "description": "822. (INSR221, INSR922) Employee Benefit Plan Design and Financing. (C) Mitchell. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nLarge U.S. employers devote up to 40% of payroll on non-wage benefits, and in other countries, the ratio is higher. \n\nWhat rationales justify such a substantial budget commitment to employee benefits?  How are benefit packages designed and how do they evolve to achieve multiple ends?  Course units cover aspects of life insurance, health and disability insurance, and deferred compensation plans along with the economic consequences of and regulatory environment shaping each.  Executive compensation is also covered.  This course is useful to anyone interested in health care, insurance and retirement planning, for either professional or personal reasons.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "822. (INSR221, INSR922) Employee Benefit Plan Design and Financing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR222)", "num": "823", "description": "823. (INSR222) Business Insurance and Estate Planning. (C) Hallman. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThis course presents an analysis of overall private wealth management.  This includes planning for disposition of closely-held business interests; the impact of income taxes and other transfer costs on business interests and other assets; integration of life insurance, disability insurance, medical benefits, and long-term care insurance in the financial plan; planning for concentrated asset (e.g., common stock) positions, diversification techniques, and asset allocation strategies; distribution of retirement assets; lifetime giving and estate planning; and analysis of current developments in the creation, conservation, and distribution of estates.  Attention also is given to various executive compensation techniques (including restricted stock and stock options) and planning for various employee benefits.  The course also covers sophisticated charitable giving techniques and methods for financing education expenses.  Readings consist of textbook, case studies, and bulk pack articles. \n\n This course should be attractive to most students to help them plan for their own or their families' financial affairs. \n\nIt also should be particularly attractive to students specializing in entrepreneurship, wealth management finance, and law.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "823. (INSR222) Business Insurance and Estate Planning. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR924)", "num": "824", "description": "824. (INSR924) Social Insurance. (A) Smetters. Prerequisite(s): Micro economics; statistics or basic econometrics. \n\nThis course presents and evaluates economic rationales for social insurance programs in the developed and developing world.  We explore how social insurance programs are designed and implemented in theory and practice, and examine what their economic effects are on key players' behaviors.  Topics include systems protecting against umemployment, disability, poverty, old age, and medical care expenses.  We examine the relative roles of private versus governmentally-provided benefit programs, focusing on financing and benefit provision.  Special attention is devoted to recent and ongoing real-world experiments with privatization.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "824. (INSR924) Social Insurance. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR230)", "num": "825", "description": "825. (INSR230) Managing Pure Risks: Operations and Markets. (A) staff. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThis course deals with property-liability insurance company financial management \"alternative market\" mechanisms for managing pure risks such as captive insurance companies, and the securitization of risk-linked bonds and other instruments.  It involves extensive discussion of insurance company financial strategies including investments, asset- liability management, value-at-risk, capital estimation, and financail reporting.  Additional topics include product distribution and marketing systems, underwriting operations and policy, reinsurance, rate-making and reserves, claims, accounting, and other functions of insurance risk pools.  The regulation and taxation of insurance and captive insurance companies are also covered.  A number of public policy issues affecting the management of property-liability insurers are disucssed including: insurer solvency and state guarantee funds, discrimination in property-liability insurance pricing, the effect of the underwriting cycles, and the convergence of the financial services sector. The characteristics of the property-liability insurance industry also are studied within the framework of the financial services industry.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "825. (INSR230) Managing Pure Risks: Operations and Markets. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(INSR232, INSR927)", "num": "827", "description": "827. (INSR232, INSR927) Risk Management and Treatment. (B) staff. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nNature and objectives of corporate risk management.  Primary consideration devoted to the recognition, evaluation, and treatment of pure risks to which the corporation is exposed.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "827. (INSR232, INSR927) Risk Management and Treatment. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR251)", "num": "829", "description": "829. (INSR251) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science I. (A) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): One semester of calculus. \n\nThis course is the usual entry point in the actuarial science program.  It is required for students who plan to concentrate or minor in actuarial science. It can also be taken by others interested in the mathematics of personal finance and the use of mortality tables.  For future actuaries, it provides the necessary knowledge of compound interest and its applications, and basic life contingencies definition to be used throughout their studies. Non-actuaries will be introduced to practical applications of finance mathematics, such as loan amortization and bond pricing, and premium calculation of typical life insurance contracts.  Main topics include annuities,loans and bonds; basic principles of life contingencies and determination of annuity and insurance benefits and premiums.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "829. (INSR251) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science I. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(INSR252)", "num": "830", "description": "830. (INSR252) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science II. (B) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): INSR 829. \n\nThis specialized course is usually only taken by Wharton students who plan to concentrate in actuarial science and Penn students who plan to minor in actuarial mathematics.  It provides a comprehensive analysis of advanced life contingencies problems such as reserving, multiple life functions, multiple decrement theory with application to the valuation of pension plans.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "830. (INSR252) Fundamentals of Actuarial Science II. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(INSR260)", "num": "831", "description": "831. (INSR260) Applied Statistical Methods for Actuaries. (B) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): One semester of probability. \n\nOne half of the course is devoted to the study of time series, including ARIMA modeling and forecasting.  The other half studies modifications in random variables due to deductibles, co-payments, policy limits, and elements of simulation.  This course is a possible entry point into the actuarial science program.  No INSR coure is a pre-requisite for INSR 831.  The Society of Actuaries has approved INSR 831 for VEE credit on the topic of time series.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "831. (INSR260) Applied Statistical Methods for Actuaries. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR253)", "num": "833", "description": "833. (INSR253) Actuarial Statistics. (A) Lemaire. Prerequisite(s): Two semesters of Statistics. \n\nThis course covers models for insurer's losses, and applications of Markov chains.  Poisson processes, including extensions such as non-homoeneous, compount, and mixed Poissonprocesses are studied in detail.  The compound model is then used to establish the distribution of losses.  An extensive section on Markov chains provides the theory to forecast future states of the process, as well as numerous applications of Markov chains to insurance, finance, and genetics.  The course is abundantly illustrated by examples from the insurance and finance literature.  While most of the students taking the course are future actuaries, other students interested in applications of statistics may discover in class many fascinating applications of stochastic processes and Markov chains.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "833. (INSR253) Actuarial Statistics. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR210)", "num": "835", "description": "835. (INSR210) Financial Strategies and Analysis: Insurance. (C) Kartasheva. Prerequisite(s): Good understanding of capital markets, insurance markets, and basic statistics. \n\nThis course is designed to apply and expand upon the theories and methodologies taught in finance to the complex and specific needs of managing financial risk in the insurance enterprise.  The types of financial risks that today's insurance professionals faxe come from both the asset and liability sides of the balance sheet and thus reuqire a wide range of modeling tools. Concurrently, the tools used in the modeling of interest-rate risk, equity risk, and default risk have become incresingly important in an era of increasing convergence between the insurance industry and financial capital markets.  This course will introduce several risk management models designed to allow insurance professional to mesure and manage each source of risk.  We develop and critique theoretical models for each type of risk while strong emphasis is placed on the implementation and calibration of various modesl. Projects include the risk management and pricing of Variable Equity Indexed Annuities and Guaranteed Investment Contracts.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "835. (INSR210) Financial Strategies and Analysis: Insurance. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "890", "description": "890. Advanced Study Project. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "890. Advanced Study Project. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "891", "description": "891. Thesis Supervision. (C)\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "891. Thesis Supervision. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "899", "description": "899. Independent Study. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "899. Independent Study. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(INSR221, INSR822)", "num": "922", "description": "922. (INSR221, INSR822) Employee Benefit Plan Design and Financing. (C) Mitchell. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nLarge U.S. employers devote up to 40% of payroll on non-wage benefits, and in other countries, the ratio is higher. \n\nWhat rationales justify such a substantial budget commitment to employee benefits?  How are benefit packages designed and how do they evolve to achieve multiple ends?  Course units cover aspects of life insurance, health and disability insurance, and deferred compensation plans along with the economic consequences of and regulatory environment shaping each.  Executive compensation is also covered.  This course is useful to anyone interested in health care, insurance and retirement planning, for either professional or personal reasons.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "922. (INSR221, INSR822) Employee Benefit Plan Design and Financing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(INSR824)", "num": "924", "description": "924. (INSR824) Social Insurance. (A) Smetters. Prerequisite(s): Some economics and econometrics desirable. \n\nThis course presents and evaluates economic rationales for social insurance programs in the developed and developing world.  We explore how social insurance programs are designed and implemented in theory and practice, and examine what their economic effects are on key players' behaviors.  Topics include systems protecting against umemployment, disability, poverty, old age, and medical care expenses.  We examine the relative roles of private versus governmentally-provided benefit programs, focusing on financing and benefit provision.  Special attention is devoted to recent and ongoing real-world experiments with privatization.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "924. (INSR824) Social Insurance. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "926", "description": "926. Markets for Pure Risk. (C) Staff. Prerequisite(s): INSR 825, preferred but not required. \n\nThis course deals with economic and financial issues in property-liability insurance.  The focus is on the economics of the property-liability insurance industry and on economic and financial aspects of property-liability insurance company management.  The course begins by studying the structure of the property-liability insurance industry and its role in the economy.  Among the key issues are profit cycles, insurance stock performance, and price and availability problems. \n\nThe course then moves to a micro level, analyzing the economics of insurance company operations.  The role of underwriting is discussed in the context of economic models of asymmetric information and adverse selection.  The efficiency of alternative marketing technologies is considered.  A major course segment is devoted to financial models for pricing property-liability contracts and their implications for company management and market behavior.  A final major course segment deals with the impact on insurance markets of price and solvency regulation.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "926. Markets for Pure Risk. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "932", "description": "932. Contract Theory and Applications. (B) Kartasheva and Gottlieb. Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThe course provides an advanced introduction to the theory of contracts and itsmixture of foundational theories and applications to fields such as labor, reguindustrial organization.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "932. Contract Theory and Applications. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "934", "description": "934. Economics of Risk and Time. (A) Nini and Smetters. Prerequisite(s): Economics (Basic). \n\nThis course deals with the economic theory of supply, demand, and equilibrium in savings and insurance markets, including social insurance.  We will review decision models under condidtions of risk and use these to address probelms of optimal insurance, moral hazard and adverse selection, social security, and contract enforcement.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "934. Economics of Risk and Time. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "999", "description": "999. Independent Study. (C)\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "999. Independent Study. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ARCH403)", "num": "403", "description": "403. (ARCH403) Design Fundamentals. (A) \n\nAn introduction to the basic concepts of applied arts in the design of simple three-dimensional objects of use.  The description, projection, and fabrication of objects are studied through a series of workshop exercises and seminar discussions.  Hand sketching, parametric solid modeling computer-aided design software, and fabrication technologies are used to create and develop virtual models, drawings, and simple prototypes.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "403. (ARCH403) Design Fundamentals. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "501", "description": "L/L 501. Integrated Computer-Aided Design, Manufacturing and Analysis. (C) Prerequisite(s): MEAM 101, MEAM 150, and MEAM 210, or graduate standing in the School of Engineering, Design, or Wharton with similar experience. \n\nThe majority of today's engineered products move through an advanced computer-aided workflow which greatly speeds design and process time.  This course will explore the fundamental components of this workflow through a combination of lectures, hands-on exercises, and a semester design project. General course topics include: fundamental design principles, project definition and needfinding, advanced computer-aided design, rapid prototyping techniques, computer-controlled machining, and an in-depth exploration of the modern analysis and simulation tools that have revolutionized the way in which products are designed.  Enrollment is limited.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "501. Integrated Computer-Aided Design, Manufacturing and Analysis. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "509", "description": "509. Needfinding. (C) \n\nNeedfinding is an approach that puts people and their needs at the center of product development and business strategy creation.  Over 90% of new products introduced into the marketplace fail.  A good portion of these failures are due to lack of understanding of end consumers and their needs.  To develop truly successful new products, it's not enough just to ask people what they need or want.  Designers and engineers need tools and techniques to get beyond what people can explicitly state and determine their implicit needs. Needfinding is an approach for developing deep insights that provide strategic direction for corporations and open up new possibilities for product development.  In this class students will gain a toolset from which to develop their own approaches to conducting researching for design: learning how to think about other people, about culture, and about new perspectives.  They will also learn tactical skills: how to define research questions, how to conduct observations and interviews, how to interpret results, how to synthesize them into fodder for design, and how to communicate their findings in a way that is compelling and actionable for designers, marketers, and business strategists. \n\n This class is designed for graduate students and upper level undergrads with a specific interest in product design or design thinking.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "509. Needfinding. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(MEAM514)", "num": "514", "description": "514. (MEAM514) Design for Manufacturability. (B) Prerequisite(s): Senior or Graduate standing in the School of Design, Engineering, or Business with completed product development and/or design engineering core coursework or related experience. \n\nThis course is aimed at providing current and future product design/development engineers, manufacturing engineers, and product development managers with an applied understanding of Design for Manufacturability (DFM) concepts and methods.  The course content includes materials from multiple disciplines including: engineering design, manufacturing, marketing, finance, project management, and quality systems.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "514. (MEAM514) Design for Manufacturability. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MEAM516)", "num": "516", "description": "516. (MEAM516) Advanced Mechatronic Reactive Systems. (C) \n\nThis course teaches advanced mechatronics concepts that include the design and implementation of networked embedded systems, large-scale actuation, advanced sensing and control.  This course pairs design school and engineering students to form interdisciplinary teams that together design and build electro-mechanical reactive spaces and scenic/architectural elements in the context of the performing arts.  The two disciplinary groups will be treated separately and receive credit for different courses (ARCH746 will be taught concurrently and in some cases co-located) as they will be learning different things.  Engineering students gain design sensibilities and advanced mechatronics in the form of networked embedded processing and protocols for large scale actuation and sensing.  Design students learn elementary mechatronics and design reactive architectures and work with engineering students to build them.  The class will culminate in a collection of short performance pieces inspired by Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream with both mechatronic and human performers from the Pig Iron Theater Troupe, A final paper will be required that is ready for conference proceedings.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "516. (MEAM516) Advanced Mechatronic Reactive Systems. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ARCH726)", "num": "526", "description": "SM 526. (ARCH726) Furniture Design. (B)\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "526. (ARCH726) Furniture Design. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ARCH728, ARCH729)", "num": "528", "description": "L/L 528. (ARCH728, ARCH729) Industrial Design: Design of Contemporary Products. (C) \n\nThis course was designed to explore intersections of functionality and performance using an experimental platform to uncover opportunities within the built environment to create domestic products.  Provides practical insights into the material manipulation and aesthetic experimentation that are essential for the design and fabrication of products. \n\nLectures and case studies help students to learn from examples and develop their own designs. Through a series of exercises, students design and fabricate a prototype using actual materials.  The course addresses problems unique to product design, such as scale, weight, cost and production.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "528. (ARCH728, ARCH729) Industrial Design: Design of Contemporary Products. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ARCH730)", "num": "530", "description": "SM 530. (ARCH730) Building Product Workshop: TRANSWALL. (C) \n\nAs Craig Vogel notes in The Design of Things to Come, \"we are in a new economic age that is in need of a new renaissance in product development, on that leverages multiple minds working in concert,\" With this mindset, this interdisciplinary workshop guides students through the product design process from design brief to concept generation in one semester, working firsthand with Transwall, a leading manufacturer of demountable wall systems, to focus on a specific product need.  The design opportunity looks for the next generation of pre-manufactured wall systems; getting away from field constructed walls and looking at critical issues of mass-produced wall systems; flexibility, mobility, structural stability, acoustics, transparency/opacity, and operability.  During the workshop, students will explore the context that creates the unique need for a new product and have an opportunity to conceptualize their design ideas through sketches, scale model studies and partial prototypes.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "530. (ARCH730) Building Product Workshop: TRANSWALL. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ARCH632)", "num": "532", "description": "532. (ARCH632) Surface Effects. (B) \n\nSeveral sections are offered from which students make a selection.  This year'sselections include: Space and Structure; Surface/Effects.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "532. (ARCH632) Surface Effects. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(ARCH744)", "num": "544", "description": "544. (ARCH744) Digital Fabrication. \n\nA seminar and design workshop that explores associative and parametric CAD-CAM strategies, to enable an interactive continuity between conception and fabrication.  Through parametric 3D constructions, students will explore how to link dink different aspects of the architectural projects, such as: (1) design intention; (2) control of variation and adaptation; (3) construction constraints; (4) digital fabrication processes.  The course emphasizes the cross-fertilization of formal, technical and performative aspects of the design activity.", "title": "544. (ARCH744) Digital Fabrication."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(EAS 449)", "num": "549", "description": "549. (EAS 449) Product Development in Entrepreneurial Ventures. (B) Prerequisite(s): Seniors and Graduate students from the School of Design, Engineering or Business that have an interest in product design and/or integrated product development in an entrepreneurial environment. \n\nThe field of Product Development which, of its nature, is an interdisciplinary activity has always been at the core of entrepreneurship.  Though in modern mythology entrepreneurship is a solitary effort by a passionate individual, entrepreneurship is frequently more successful when pursued i n an interdisciplinary environment.  Through the review and analysis of case studies, class discussion, lecture subjects, a semester long project and fieldtrips, this class will provide insight into the methodologies of product definition, creative processes, decision priorities, and aesthetic sensitivities required appreciate and accomplish excellence in product development in an entrepreneurial environment. \n\n Product Development can be the critical element in an entrepreneurial effort. Though it rarely requires the greatest time investment, concentration of personnel, the majority of the funding or even the greatest depth of expertise to accomplish with basic competence, it can be the difference between a successful and failed venture.  A poorly designed \"product \"can prevent a venture from being successful.  An excellently designed product can make a competent business plan much more successful.  A well defined and designed product can not only meet customer expectation but can create desirability.  A well defined and designed product creates a connection with the user that can produce satisfaction and even pride of ownership. \n\n Through the review and analysis of case studies, class discussion, lecture subjects and field trips, this class will provide insight into the methodologieof product definition, creative processes, decision priorities, and aesthetic sensitivities required to appreciate and accomplish excellence in product development. \n\n Specific knowledge areas to be explored: Product design processes, User needs research, Intellectual property research, Experience design, Industrial design, Interface design, Product Driven Financial development\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "549. (EAS 449) Product Development in Entrepreneurial Ventures. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "899", "description": "899. Independent Study", "title": " 899. Independent Study "}]