[null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "101", "description": "101. Introduction to Law and Legal Process. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course presents law as an evolving social institution, with special emphasis on the legal regulation of business.  It considers basic concepts of law and legal process, in the U.S. and other legal systems, and introduces the fundamentals of rigorous legal analysis.  An in-depth examination of contract law is included.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "101. Introduction to Law and Legal Process. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST802)", "num": "202", "description": "202. (LGST802) Law of Corporate Management and Finance. (C) Constan, Orts. \n\nThis course provides an introduction to the law of corporate management and finance, focusing on large publicly held corporations.  It is presented from the perspective that before too long virtually all students will serve on one or more corporate boards of directors and that each should, therefore, know about the duties owed by directors and officers to those toward whom they bear a fiduciary duty.  The course covers the basic obligations of corporate directors and managers under state corporate law and the federal securities laws.  It also considers the rights and responsibilites of other major stake holders in the governance of public corporations, including shareholders, creditors/bondholders, employees (including corporate executives), investment bankers, corporate lawyers, and accountants.  Particular attention is given to the law of mergers and acquisitions.  Important issues of social policy concerning large business corporations are also discussed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "202. (LGST802) Law of Corporate Management and Finance. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST804, REAL204, REAL804)", "num": "204", "description": "204. (LGST804, REAL204, REAL804) Real Estate Law. (C) Phillips. \n\nThis course examines the fundamentals of real estate financing and development from a legal perspective.  The course serves as a foundation course for real estate majors and provides an introduction to real estate for other students. It attempts to develop skills in using legal concepts in a real estate transactional setting.  The course will be of interest to students contemplating careers in accounting, real estate development, real estate finance, city planning, or banking. \n\nThe main topics covered may include the following: land acquisistion; finance; choice entity; tax aspects; management (leasing, environmental); disposition of property (sale of mortgaged property, foreclosures, wraparound mortgages, sale-leasebacks); and recent legal developments.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "204. (LGST804, REAL204, REAL804) Real Estate Law. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST805, MKTG236, MKTG760)", "num": "205", "description": "205. (LGST805, MKTG236, MKTG760) Law of Marketing and Antitrust. (C) Constan. \n\nThe course explores the legal aspects of marketing strategy.  The first half considers relevant antitrust doctrine and policy: mergers, acquisitions, and joint ventures; pricing strategy (e.g., price fixing, exchanging price information, predatory pricing, and discriminatory pricing); marketing channel strategy (e.g., resale price maintenance, territorial and customer restrictions, exclusive dealing, refusals to deal, etc.); and limits on market dominance.  The second half considers issues the intellectual property dimension (including federal patent, copyright, and trademark law), as well as federal and state laws pertaining to trade secrets, unfair competition, and consumer protection.  The focus is primarily on U.S.  law, but the challenges posed by diverse domestic, foreign, and international regimes will also be emphasized. \n\nThe course is useful to students contemplating employment in the field of marketing, and to students interested in anticipating legal constraints on competitive strategies.  Most broadly, the course should be of interest to anyone desiring to understand the legal and public policy issues relating to the government regulation of business.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "205. (LGST805, MKTG236, MKTG760) Law of Marketing and Antitrust. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MGMT291, OPIM291)", "num": "206", "description": "206. (MGMT291, OPIM291) Negotiation and Conflict Resolution. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course examines the art and science of negotiation, with additional emphasis on conflict resolution.  Students will engage in a number of simulated negotiations ranging from simple one-issue transactions to multi-party joint ventures. \n\nThrough these exercises and associated readings, students explore the basic theoretical models of bargaining and have an opportunity to test and improve their negotiation skills.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "206. (MGMT291, OPIM291) Negotiation and Conflict Resolution. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST809)", "num": "207", "description": "207. (LGST809) The Sports Industry: Business and Legal Aspects. (C) Rosner, Shropshire. \n\nThe purpose of this course is to introduce future sports leaders to a compendium of business and legal issues that apply in the context of the management of professional and amateur sports.  Although the factual situations will focus upon sports, the technique of inserting a legal dimension into management decision analysis transferable to other industries as well.  The course will provide both practical and theoretical approaches. Students will read standard case law and business cases in the sports area as well as law review articles and economic materials.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "207. (LGST809) The Sports Industry: Business and Legal Aspects. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST808, MGMT247)", "num": "208", "description": "208. (LGST808, MGMT247) The Law at Work: Employment Law for Managers. (C) Weinstein. \n\nPractical business solutions to problems arising in the workplace and effective human resources policy and procedures require knowledge and understanding of employment law.  This course examines the development, evolution and current status of workplace laws with particular emphasis on workplace privacy and security issues including electronic communications, surveillance and monitoring; recruiting and hiring; civil rights in employment including discrimination, harassment, diversity and affirmative action; the non-employee workforce; and the regulatory environment including laws protecting workers, fair labor standards and labor/management relations.  It provides students with an introduction to the law of the workforce and examines the balance between business goals and employment law compliance.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "208. (LGST808, MGMT247) The Law at Work: Employment Law for Managers. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "210", "description": "210. Corporate Responsibility and Ethics. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course explores business responsibility from rival theoretical and managerial perspectives.  Its focus includes theories of ethics and their application to case studies in business.  Topics include moral issues in advertising and sales; hiring and promotion; financial management; corporate pollution; product safety; and decision-making across borders and cultures.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "210. Corporate Responsibility and Ethics. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HCMG211, HCMG854, LGST811)", "num": "211", "description": "211. (HCMG211, HCMG854, LGST811) Legal Aspects of Health Care. (C) Rosoff, Field. \n\nThis course offers a current and historical overview of the regulation of health care delivery and financing in the U.S. \n\nIt examines principles and practical applications of the laws that affect the operational decisions of health care providers, payers, and managers and that impact the development of markets for health care products and services. \n\nAlso considered are the social, moral, and ethical issues encountered in trying to balance the interests, needs and rights of citizens against those of society.  For part of the term, the class will divide into two groups so that students can focus on their choice of (1) health care management (antitrust law, and regulation of the drug and medical device industry) or (2) selected issues of patients' rights (e.g., abortion, treatment of terminal patients, etc.).\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "211. (HCMG211, HCMG854, LGST811) Legal Aspects of Health Care. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(BPUB212)", "num": "212", "description": "212. (BPUB212) Economic Analysis of Law. (C) Asher. Prerequisite(s): Econ 001. \n\nThe course is designed to teach students how to think as an economist about legal rules; to evaluate alternative legal rules against standards of economic efficiency and distributive justice; and to understand the nature of the legal process and several specific areas of the law.  With the use of alternative texts, both deductive and inductive reasoning will be employed to study the formation and interpretation of legal rules.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "212. (BPUB212) Economic Analysis of Law. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST813)", "num": "213", "description": "213. (LGST813) Legal Aspect of Entrepreneurship. (C) Flocos. \n\nLegal Aspects of Entrepreneurship is a practical and intensive course that examines the critical legal issues confronting start-up and emerging growth companies.  Although the context of the course is early stage companies, many of the concepts studied are equally applicable to more mature, established companies.  The course provides perspective on how to use the law strategically to manage risk, deploy resources and maximize shareholder value. Topics include the enforceability of confidentiality, non-competition and other restrictive covenants in employment agreements; choice of business form including the legal, financial and tax advantages and disadvantages of general partnerships, limited partnerships, corporations and limited liability companies; tax and securities law; legal aspects of raising capital including structuring venture capital and private equity financing; letters of intent and mergers and acquisitions, employment law, and intellectual property law including trade secrets, copyrights, patents, and trademarks.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "213. (LGST813) Legal Aspect of Entrepreneurship. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST814)", "num": "214", "description": "214. (LGST814) International Business Transactions. (C) Nichols. \n\nThis course aims to familiarize students with and prepare students for the conduct of international transactions. \n\nStudents will work their way through a series of hypothetical trade transactions, placed against a background of concepts and general theories.  Students will take a hypothetical firm through a series of possible transnational investments, again after discussion of concepts and general theories.  Throughout, the course will discuss issues of importance to emerging economies.  Students should be able to make thoughtful choices rather than simply reciting bullet points about international business transactions.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "214. (LGST814) International Business Transactions. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST815, MGMT213, MGMT713)", "num": "215", "description": "215. (LGST815, MGMT213, MGMT713) Environmental Management: Law & Policy. (C) Orts. \n\nThis course provides an introduction to environmental management with a focus on law and policy as a basic framework.  The primary aim of the course is to give students a deeper practical sense of the important relationship between business and the natural environment and to think critically about how best to manage this relationship.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "215. (LGST815, MGMT213, MGMT713) Environmental Management: Law & Policy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "216", "description": "216. Emerging Economies. (C) Nichols. \n\nThis course explores important issues in conducting business internationally in and with emerging economies.  Much of the course attempts to define emerging economies and to understand the changes occurring in these countries. The course also examines the position of emerging economies in the global context, and how broad social issues affect the development of emerging economies and the ability to establish relationships or conduct business in emerging economies.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "216. Emerging Economies. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(AFRC218)", "num": "218", "description": "218. (AFRC218) Diversity and the Law. (C) Anderson. \n\nThe goal of this course is to study the role the law has played, and continues to play, in addressing the problems of racial discrimination in the United States.  Contemporary issues such as racial profiling, affirmative action, and diversity will all be covered in their social and legal context.  The basis for discussion will be assigned texts, articles, editorials and cases.  In addition, interactive videos will also be used to aid class discussion. Course requirements will include examinations and class discussions.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "218. (AFRC218) Diversity and the Law. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "219", "description": "219. Law and Policy in International Business. (C) Mayer. \n\nThis course introduces students to the frameworks for regulating international business national, regional, and international, singling out the most relevant features of these for special attention.  Topics include international dispute resolution, trade law, jurisdictional and choice of law problems, patterns in extraterritoriality, managing conflicting legal standards, and problems in the way of creating more uniform rules affecting the conduct of international business. \n\nStudents are encouraged to evaluate the policy dimensions of current legal regimes and proposals for reforms and to develop their own critical perspectives regarding these.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "219. Law and Policy in International Business. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST820)", "num": "220", "description": "220. (LGST820) International Business Ethics. (C) Hsieh, Radin. \n\nThis course is a multidisciplinary, interactive study of business ethics within a global economy.  A central aim of the course is to enable students to develop a framework to address ethical challenges as they arise within and across different countries.  Alternative theories about acting ethically in global environments are presented, and critical current issues are introduced and analyzed.  Examples include bribery, global sourcing, environmental sustainability, social reports, intellectual property, e-commerce, and dealing with conflicting standards and values across cultures.  As part of this study, the course considers non-Western ethical traditions and practices as they relate to business.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "220. (LGST820) International Business Ethics. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "221", "description": "221. Constitutional Law and Free Enterprise. (C) Constan, Rosoff. \n\nThe course explores the fundamentals of U.S. constitutional doctrine and adjudication, with an emphasis on commercial and business issues and implications of constitutional law.  The course starts by considering the Constitution and the structure and relationship of the governmental entities it establishes and upon which it depends. \n\nSpecial attention is given to the role of the federal courts, especially the Supreme Court, in interpreting and applying constitutional principles.  From this foundation, the course moves on to examine in detail the major economic and business implications of constitutional law in different eras of the nation's history.  A core theme is how historical events and changing notions of public policy have affected and been affected by the evolution of constitutional doctrine.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "221. Constitutional Law and Free Enterprise. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "222", "description": "222. Law of E-Commerce. (C) Werbach. \n\nThis course examines the legal rules governing electronic commerce and the Internet.  These are no longer new phenomena, but the law in many critical areas is still evolving.  The course includes both private and public law components.  Private law issues involve matters between parties involved in e-commerce.  Examples include making contracts online, intellectual property rules, and jurisdiction over online transactions.  Public law issues involve regulatory or governance obligations on Internet users and service providers. Examples include privacy, Internet domain names, certain types of forbidden content, spam, and regulation of communications networks.  The course will examine legal cases as well as examples of e-commerce businesses, which demonstrate how these rules apply to particular scenarios.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "222. Law of E-Commerce. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST807)", "num": "223", "description": "223. (LGST807) Securities Regulation. (C) Tyson, Matwyshyn. \n\nThe course examines the federal securities laws and the operation of the Securities Exchange Commission.  The legal responsibilities of corporate managers, accountants, underwriters, and broker-dealers, occasioned by the securities regulatory scheme, will be investigated.  Students will be encouraged to evaluate, from a managerial perspective, the various aspects of securities regulation studied.  The course will discuss the recent financial crisis and ask the question whether enhanced securities regulation will prevent such a crisis in the future.  The material covered in the course will provide familiarity with the basic legal structure of securities regulation and will assist in understanding the current policy issues in securities law. The course should help students to develop the ability to read and learn further in the field and to improve their effectiveness of communication with attorneys.  It will suggest ways of detecting instances in which an attorney should be consulted.  The course is particularly useful for those students pursuing careers in corporate finance, investment banking, mergers and acquisitions, sales and trading, venture capital, private equity, entrepreneurship, accounting, corporate management, and real estate.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "223. (LGST807) Securities Regulation. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "224", "description": "224. Human Rights and Globalization. (C) Bellace, Mayer. \n\nThe 2000 UN Global Compact and the 2003 UN Norms on the Responsibilities of Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises with Regard to Human Rights have confirmed the role of TNCs as central actors in the field of international human rights law.  This course introduces students to how international human rights law is currently being expanded to capture the operations of TNCs and why this development is controversial.  The course examines competing perspectives on the pros and cons of imposing human rights responsibilities on businesses based in capital- exporting countries that are operate in emerging economies.  Perspectives of various governments, businesses, international institutions, academics, and NGOs on issues of human rights and globalization will be considered, and a variety of case studies will be analyzed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "224. Human Rights and Globalization. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "226", "description": "226. Markets, Morality & the Future of Capitalism. (C) Hussain. \n\nMarkets play a central role in the life of a capitalist democracy.  But is this a good thing?  Should we let markets decide who is rich and who is poor? Who makes decisions and who follows them?  Whose ideas get heard and whose ideas do not?  The goal of this class will be to examine the market from the perspective of various social values to see whether we should want a market system and, if so, what kind of market system we should want.  Among the issues we will examine are the following.  Does the market contribute to the common good?  If so, how?  Does the market conflict with the idea that all human beings are of equal value?  What is the relation between the market and freedom?  Does the market liberate us or oppress us?  Can we reconcile the market with our democratic ideals?  What role should corporations play in a healthy democracy?  What role should markets play in an increasingly globalized world?  We will read several important philosophers, economists and political theorists writing on these issues, including Adam Smith, John Rawls, Amartya Sen, Friedrich Hayek, Karl Marx, Robert Nozick, Ronald Dworkin, J_rgen Habermas, Peter Singer, and others.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "226. Markets, Morality & the Future of Capitalism. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "227", "description": "227. Literature of Success. (C) Shell. \n\nThis course explores the history, literature, and philosophy of two age-old questions: what does it mean to be successful and how does one achieve this elusive goal?  It surveys some of the classics of the \"success\" genre - from Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography in the 18th century to Dale Carnegie's How to Win Friends and Influence People and Marcus Buckingham's Now, Discover Your Strengths in the 20th and 21st centuries.  Case studies of remarkable achievements in business and society and Arthur Miller's play Death of a Salesman provide additional contexts within which to reflect on the questions at the center of the course.  Students will keep a personal journal and use web-based tools to examine their own character strengths, talents, and achievement orientations.  Grading is based on class attendance and participation, reading response papers, two short papers on themes related to success, and a final, longer paper exploring, based on course readings and original research, each student's personal philosophy of success.  No final exam.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "227. Literature of Success. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "228", "description": "228. Sports Law. (C) Brandt, Shropshire. \n\nThis course focuses on the areas of association, contract, constitutional, labor, antitrust, and agency law as they apply to the sports industry.  This course exposes the student to many of the legal issues facing those in sport organizations. \n\nSpecial attention is given to the regulation of professional and amateur athletics, agency law, antitrust law, the organizational structure of sports leagues and associations, labor-management relations, and Title IX. The development of effective communication skills will be emphasized through class presentations and written assignments, leadership and interpersonal communications will be developed through small group projects and meetings, and critical thinking and problem solving skills will be fostered through the careful study of numerous cases.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "228. Sports Law. (C)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "230", "description": "230. Social Impact and Responsibility: Foundations. Hsieh. Prerequisite(s): none. \n\nThis course provides undergraduates with the opportunity to develop an integrated framework for approaching the wide-ranging field of social impact and responsibility.  The course involves the critical analysis of key issues that lie at the foundation of social impact and responsibility as an area of study, and is organized around addressing the question: How should business enterprises and business thinking be engaged to improve society in areas not always associated with business? \n\n A key element of the course is the development of frameworks to define and measure social improvement.  The course also examines approaches for success in corporate philanthropy, corporate social responsibility, socially responsible investing, business-nonprofit partnerships, social entrepreneurship and the adaptation of business thinking to the social sector. Examples are drawn from a range of areas, including the environment, education, health, economic development, microfinance, human rights, and community engagement.  The course is intended for students who seek careers in this field and for students who seek to prepare themselves for the social and political demands placed upon business enterprises operating in a global economy.  The course is required for the secondary concentration in Social Impact and Responsibility.", "title": "230. Social Impact and Responsibility: Foundations."}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MGMT292, OPIM292)", "num": "292", "description": "292. (MGMT292, OPIM292) Adv Topics Negotiations. (C) Schweitzer, Staff. Prerequisite(s): LGST 206 Negotiations. \n\nThis course is designed to teach negotiation principles and to enable student to develop their negotiation skills.  This course assumes familiarity with the basic negotiation concepts covered in the prerequisite for this course: Negotiations. \n\n In this course, we extend the study and practice of negotiations and we develop a deeper understanding for how specific aspects of the negotiation process (e.g., emotions, deadlines, trust violations) impact outcomes. Through course lectures, readings, and case exercises, students will develop a rich framework for thinking about the negotiation process and acquire tools for guiding the negotiation process.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "292. (MGMT292, OPIM292) Adv Topics Negotiations. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "299", "description": "SM 299. Seminar in Law and Society. (C) Staff. See department for current offerings. \n\nA study of the nature, functions, and limits of law as an agency of societal policy.  Each semester an area of substantive law is studied for the purpose of examining the relationship between legal norms developed and developing in the area and societal problems and needs.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "299. Seminar in Law and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "920", "description": "SM 920. Ethics in Business and Economics. (M) Donaldson, Hsieh. Ph.D Course. \n\nThe seminar explores the growing academic literature in business ethics.  It also provides participants an opportunity to investigate an ethical issue of their choosing in some depth, using their field of specialty as context.  The seminar assumes no previous exposure to business ethics.  Different theories and frameworks for investigating issues will be discussed.  In turn, these theories will be applied to a range of issues, both domestic and international.  Such issues include: corruption in host countries, the management of values in modern corporations, the ethical status of the corporation, ethics in sophisticated financial transactions (such as leveraged derivative transactions), and gender discrimination in the context of cultural differences.  Literature not only from business ethics, but from professional and applied ethics, law, and organizational behavior will be discussed. Often, guest speakers will address the seminar. \n\nAt the discretion of the class, special topics of interest to the class will be examined.  Students will be expected to write and present a major paper dealing with a current issue within their major field.  The course is open to students across fields, and provides integration of ideas across multiple business disciplines.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "920. Ethics in Business and Economics. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "921", "description": "SM 921. Foundations of Business Law. (M) Orts, Strudler. Ph.D Course. \n\nThis course will introduce students to basic jurisprudential discussions and debates that relate to understanding business in society.  Topics will include a general overview of the nature of law and its relationship to ethics; theories of contract, torts, and property; criminal law as it applies to business situations; and theories of the business enterprise and its regulation.  Selected topics will also be chosen in accordance with the interest of participants in the seminar.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "921. Foundations of Business Law. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "922", "description": "SM 922. Human Rights Law and International Business. (M) Staff. Ph.D.  Course. \n\nThe seminar will explore how international human rights law is increasingly being treated as setting universal standards that govern the conduct of international business with the aim of promoting a critical awareness of the problems that this entails.  Students will acquire a grasp of various theories and cases involving the expansion of human rights law to cover corporations, as well as the ongoing controversies over the nature of the human rights responsibilities that should be incumbent on international business.  Seminar participants will be challenged to formulate their own positions regarding this crucial development\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "922. Human Rights Law and International Business. (M) "}]