[null, null, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "100", "description": "L/R 100. Leadership and Communication in Groups. \n\nAs a Wharton undergraduate, you are in a position to become a future business leader.  Management 100 is designed to increase your understanding of leadership and communication in teams and to help you build skills that are necessary for professional success.  You will study literature on leadership, management communication, and group dynamics and also complete a field project, an integral part of the course.  Your field project provides the context in which you will develop as a leader, practice communication skills, learn about the nature of group work, and enhance your sensitivity to community issues.  Management 100 will enrich your Wharton experience by providing many opportunities for interaction with peers, advanced students, alumni, faculty and the community.", "title": "100. Leadership and Communication in Groups."}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "101", "description": "L/R 101. Introduction To Management. (C) Prerequisite(s): None. \n\nThis course addresses contemporary management challenges stemming from changing organizational structures, complex environmental conditions, new technological developments and increasingly diverse workforces.  It highlights critical management issues involved in planning, organizing, controlling and leading an organization.  This course will help you understand some of the issues involved in both managing and being managed and equip you to become more effective contributors to organizations that you join.  The course will cover several topics in management, organization and strategy.  Each topic will span one or two weeks.  Topics include combinations of the following areas: organizational structure, organizational culture, strategy, interorganizational relationships, job design, groups, reward systems, work force composition, power and politics, social responsibility, organizational change, organizational decision-making, business history.  The professor will cover an overview of the topic with frameworks and examples in the lecture and the teaching assistant will lead a case discussion that integrates these frameworks in the recitation.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "101. Introduction To Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "104", "description": "104. Industrial Relations and Human Resource Management. (C) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nThe focus of Management 104 is the economic and institutional constraints on organizations in the formulation and implementation of human resources management policies and strategies in the United States and, as appropriate, internationally.  The specific constraints discussed are labor markets (external and internal), labor laws (governing employment policies and employee relations), and labor unions (and the threat thereof).  Particular attention is paid to the relationship of these constraints to the competitiveness of American enterprise in the global economy.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "104. Industrial Relations and Human Resource Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "111", "description": "111. Multinational Management. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nMultinational management is the study of the international corporation and the global political and economic environment.  This course provides an introduction to the more advanced offerings.  It covers the historical origins of the multinational corporation, the economics of trade, money and investment in the world economy, and the policies and behavior of governments and international organizations.  We place considerable emphasis in understanding the national and historic origins of the international firm, as well as on current issues regarding emerging economies and shifts in the political economy of global markets.", "title": "111. Multinational Management."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "205", "description": "205. Multinational Corporate Strategies. (B) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100, MGMT 101, & MGMT 111. \n\nThis course focuses on the creation of competitive advantage in the multinational firm.  It examines the nature of global competition by exploring the characteristics of global versus non-global industries and firms.  We also explore different types of international strategy and structure and examine the specific challenges of managing in multiple countries and markets. Finally, we consider the strategic allocation of resources along the value chain and the role of strategic alliances as a crucial element of an effective global strategy.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "205. Multinational Corporate Strategies. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "208", "description": "208. Globalization and International Political Economy. (B) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nGlobalization and International Political Economy is an upper level undergraduaate course designed to provide the background necessary to understand globalization and the changes taking place in the international political-economy. \n\nThe course objective is to help students develop a conceptual framework that will provide an understanding of the current international political-economic environment, provide a basis for thinking about the fundamental changes which are now taking place, and to build a solid foundation to which new material can be added throughout the students' careers.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "208. Globalization and International Political Economy. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "209", "description": "209. The Political Environment of the Multinational Firm. Prerequisite(s): For Wharton students: MGMT 100, MGMT 101 & MGMT 111 (recommended); For College students: A familiarity with international politcal economy. \n\nThis course explores the intersection of international strategy and international relations to help students to identify and introduce sustainable and profitable business strategies in sectors with a history of or strong potential for ongoing political intervention.  We will examine the identity, background, incentives and operations of relevant national and international political actors; and the process by which they generates policies that can adversely or favorably influence firm profitability.  Corporations whose success depends crucially on a sophisticated analysis of the contending forces in the geopolitical arena and an ability to influence policy outcomes will serve as examples of the first-order strategic importance of incorporating the political environment in multinational strategy formulation.", "title": "209. The Political Environment of the Multinational Firm."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "211", "description": "211. Competitive Strategy. (A) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101 and some knowledge of microeconomics is suggested.  The course will be discussion oriented and based largely on case materials and mini- lectures. \n\nThis is an advanced course in competitive strategy.  The course will apply the tools of industrial organization economics and game theory to examine the strategic decisions that managers make.  We will examine those decisions concerning pricing, capacity investment, advertising, new product introductions, and research and development. \n\nEmphasis will be placed on the strategic interaction among rival sellers.  In particular we will look at the various methods of entry deterrence and strategic commitment.  The course will attempt to integrate traditional economic models with case study materials.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "211. Competitive Strategy. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(MGMT810)", "num": "212", "description": "212. (MGMT810) Entrepreneurship & Societal Wealth Venturing. (B) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & 101. \n\nThe basic thesis of this elective half-semester course is that many social problems, if engaged entrepreneurially, create opportunities for launching businesses that simultaneously generate profits and alleviate the social problem.  This approach generates social wealth as well as entrepreneurial wealth.  The courseis distinguished from public sector initiatives to address social problems, andalso from \"social entrepreneurship\" programs where social wealth creation is a by-product rather than the target of the entrepreneurial effort.  Students are expected to begin the course with already conceived ideas for entrepreneurial solutions to social problems.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "212. (MGMT810) Entrepreneurship & Societal Wealth Venturing. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "223", "description": "223. Business Strategy and Policy. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & 101; seniors and juniors that have completed introductory courses in finance, marketing, and accounting. \n\nThis course encourages students to analyze the problems of managing the total enterprise in the domestic and international setting.  The focus is on the competitive strategy of the firm, examining issues central to its long- and short-term competitive position.  Students act in the roles of key decision-makers or their advisors and solve problems related to the development or maintenance of the competitive advantage of the firm in a given market.  The first module of the course develops an understanding of key strategic frameworks using theoretical readings and case-based discussions. Students will learn concepts and tools for analyzing the competitive environment, strategic position and firm-specific capabilities in order to understand the sources of a firm's competitive advantage.  In addition, students will address corporate strategy issues such as the economic logic and administrative challenges associated with diversification choices about horizontal and vertical integration.  The second module will be conducted as a multi- session, computer-based simulation in which students will have the opportunity to apply the concepts and tools from module 1 to make strategic decisions. \n\n The goal of the course is for students to develop an analytical tool kit for understanding strategic issues and to enrich their appreciation for the thoughtprocesses essential to incisive strategic analysis.  This course offers students the opportunity to develop a general management perspective by combining their knowledge of specific functional areas with an appreciation forthe requirements posed by the need to integrate all functions into a coherent whole.  Students will develop skills in structuring and solving complex business problems.", "title": "223. Business Strategy and Policy."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(MGMT714)", "num": "225", "description": "225. (MGMT714) American Business History. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nThis course examines how the kind of firms in which most Wharton students will spend the next stage of their careers came to be as they are today.  At a superficial level, the course's objectives are descriptive and narrative.  Its deeper purpose is to give students some idea of how to think about the future evolution of firms and industries.  The course will discuss the historical development of the business enterprise as an institution.  It will also cover the evolution of competition and strategy of corporate finance.  The focus will be on American developments, since many of the innovations took place here; but there will be a number of comparisons to institutions in Japan and the leading European economies.  The course considers issues arising in a number of different management disciplines and shows off their interrelationships.", "title": "225. (MGMT714) American Business History."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "230", "description": "230. Entrepreneurship. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101; Entrepreneurship (MGMT 230) integrates the material introduced in core courses and applies it to the evaluation and creation of new ventures.  You must have attained Junior standing at Wharton and completed all of the undergraduate courses (i.e., at least one course each in marketing, management, introductory and advanced accounting and finance).  Ideally, you will also have mastered the concepts of Business Policy. \n\nMGMT 230 integrates the material introduced in core courses and applies it to the design and evaluation of new ventures.  The purpose of this course is to explore the many dimensions of new venture creation and growth to foster innovation and new business formations in independent and corporate settings. The course addresses both a theoretical perspective on venture initiation and the application of writing an actual business plan.", "title": "230. Entrepreneurship."}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "231", "description": "231. Entrepreneurship & Venture Initiation. (B) Prerequisite(s): Completion of MGMT 100, MGMT 101, AND MGMT 230 or MGMT 235. \n\nMGMT 231 is an advanced sequel to Mgmt.230 focusing on independent entrepreneurship, business plans and the business planning process, and the operating management of small firms.  Ideally, the course builds upon venture opportunities identified in MGMT 230.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "231. Entrepreneurship & Venture Initiation. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(MGMT833)", "num": "233", "description": "233. (MGMT833) Strategies and Practices of Family-Controlled Companies. (B) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & 101. \n\nThis course is designed for those persons who desire to understand the distinct strategies and practices of family- controlled companies and family wealth management.  It will focus on shareholder decision making; financial and market driven options for long-run competitiveness, organizational structures and management team issues; strategic planning from a resource-based perspective; transition planning for the corporate entity, wealth, leadership and relationship family dynamics and communication issues; and leadership empowerment.  The course is inteneded for those who plan to control family-controlled companies and for those planning a career in their family firm.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "233. (MGMT833) Strategies and Practices of Family-Controlled Companies. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(MGMT875, PSCI228)", "num": "234", "description": "234. (MGMT875, PSCI228) International Comparative Management: The Challenge of Diversity and Integration. (B) Prerequisite(s): Mgmt 100, Mgmt 101 & Mgmt 111.  This course is comprised of lectures with case discussions, group and individual short papers and quizzes on the readings. \n\nThis is essentially a course in comparative national environments for business and how aspects of these environments impact on the firm.  The course examines a number of institutions and phenomena in various countries.  Issues range from language, religion, gender and ethnicity to legal systems, financial markets and corporate governance.  The lectures draw on ideas from history, geography, sociology, political science and economics to inform our analyses. The lectures and cases range over both developed market economies and emerging economies.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "234. (MGMT875, PSCI228) International Comparative Management: The Challenge of Diversity and Integration. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "235", "description": "235. Technological Innovation and Entrepreneurship. (A) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101; open to juniors and seniors in Engineering, Applied Science, and Wharton; others only with special permission.  All students must receive instructor's permission.  Graduating M&T students receive priority enrollment. \n\nThe focus of this course is on analysis of the issues and options which must be faced in developing a new technological venture.  Particular attention is directed to the identification of technology-based venture opportunities, evaluation of technical feasibility and commercial potential, and planning for successful commercialization.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "235. Technological Innovation and Entrepreneurship. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "237", "description": "237. Management of Technology. (B) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101; limited to Management and Technology sophomore students. \n\nThis course examines the innovative process within technology-based organizations and the range of internal and external forces which impact on technological innovation and growth.  Emphasis is placed on managerial initiatives which can influence the nature and rate of technological development.  Technological innovation and change, technology forecasting and assessment, R&D management, technical planning, and organizational models are among the topics to be considered.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "237. Management of Technology. (B)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "238", "description": "238. Organizational Behavior. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nManagement 238 is the standard undergraduate course in Organizational Behavior.  The course deals essentially with the management of people at work. It examines the individual employee in his organizational environment, as well as the organization itself.  Topics range from motivation, leadership groups all the way to organization structure, culture, human resources and organizational change.  The course develops some themes in which these topics become relevant - - for example the networking organization and diversity at the workplace.  Students should expect to conduct group projects involving actual fieldwork and might be asked to give a presentation in class.", "title": "238. Organizational Behavior."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "239", "description": "239. Organization Design. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nWe are born in and spend much of our lives in organizations.  From families to schools to athletic teams and jobs, organizations play a central role in our experience.  And this is especially so as we pursue careers.  Few of us have the luxury of working as a lone artist unfettered by an organization's demands and restrictions.  At times we are grateful to organizations for their services and protection.  At other times we hate them being unfeeling and inflexible bureaucracies.  In this coures we shall examine how organizations are structured with a particular emphasis on businesses and not-for-profit organizations for which most of us will work.  How can they be structured so that they are effective and efficient?  And how can we personally survive in them when they are less than we might want?", "title": "239. Organization Design."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "240", "description": "240. Group Dynamics. \n\nThis course is designed to develop students' skills in effectively designing, leading and consulting to teams in organizations.  This will be a highly interactive course with emphasis on class participation and experiential learning. \n\nOne of the goals of this course is to provide both the conceptual understanding and the behavioral skills required to implement strategies.  To this end, class sessions will make use of a variety of approaches to teaching and learning, including the case method, simulation exercises and lectures. We will cover topics such as leading groups, group formation and socialization, diversity, creativity, group problem solving and decision making, conflict and knowledge sharing.  Students will leave this class with knowledge of how to most effectively lead a team as well as how to be an effective team member.  [NOTE: Instructors may have different objectives for this course.  Please see individual instructors' syllabi for further clarification.]", "title": "240. Group Dynamics."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(LGST208, MGMT795)", "num": "247", "description": "247. (LGST208, MGMT795) Employment Law.", "title": "247. (LGST208, MGMT795) Employment Law."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "249", "description": "249. Corporate Development: Mergers and Acquisitions. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nThis course explores the role of mergers and acquisitions and alternative methods of corporate development in advancing the strategies of operating business.  Emphasis is on the way companies use acquisitions to alter business mixes; seize opportunities in new products, technologies and markets; enhance competitive positioning; adjust to changing economics, and promote value-creating growth.  Although the course will emphasize strategic acquisitions, it also will explore leveraged buy-outs and hostile financial acquisitions as well as their influence on corporate buyers.", "title": "249. Corporate Development: Mergers and Acquisitions."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "251", "description": "251. Consulting to Growth Companies. (A) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & 101; Junior or Senior Standing Recommended. \n\nThis course offers students a unique opportunity to develop consulting skills and entrepreneurial expertise by working as consultants to entrepreneural ventures in the Philadelphia area.  This capstone course combines both fieldwork and class work and allows students to apply knowledge and skills acquired through other course work to real world issues that must be addressed by operating companies.  An understanding of characteristics producing rapid entrepreneurial growth and skills related to effective communications and management of a business relationship are emphasized.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "251. Consulting to Growth Companies. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CINE285, THAR285)", "num": "253", "description": "SM 253. (CINE285, THAR285) Creating, Managing, and Presenting the Arts. (M) Prerequisite(s): Mgmt 100 & Mgmt 101. \n\nA study of the creation and presentation of art (e.g., theater, film, sculpture), the cultural context of creativity and the management of individual and institutional performance and exhibition.  A combination of lectures by instructors and practitioners, case studies and consulting projects with local institutions will illustrate the relationship between creativity and presentation.  Students will be required to write papers, proposals, and complete a term project.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "253. (CINE285, THAR285) Creating, Managing, and Presenting the Arts. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "264", "description": "264. Venture Capital and Entrepreneurial Management. (A) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & 101; Junior or Senior Standing Recommended. \n\nThis elective course focuses on venture capital management issues in the context of a high-growth potential start-up company.  The course is motivated by rapid increases in both the supply and demand for private equity over the past two decades.  On the supply side, the amount of private equity under management has increased from under $5 billion in 1980 to over $300 billion at the beginning of 2003.  Despite the recent downturn in private equity fundraising and investment activity, private equity funding is likely to remain an important activity in the near future as pension funds and other institutions continue to diversify their portfolios.  On the demand side, an increasing number of entrepreneurs are interested in forming and growing their ventures.  The supply and demand for funds are growing globally. \n\n The course is designed principally to address the interests of students who either expect to embark on an entrepreneurial career, or those who expect to assume a managerial role with a venture-backed start-up company, or students who wish to pursue a career in venture capital.  The course will touch upon a range of fields including management, finance, accounting, strategy, and legal- and attempt to identify mainstream \"best practices\" in the area of high growth potential start-ups, with the objective of ensuring that students completing the course will have a solid understanding of the questions and issues that face the typical start-up.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "264. Venture Capital and Entrepreneurial Management. (A)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "282", "description": "282. Strategic Implementation. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nThis course is directed toward the attainment of three interdependent objectives: 1)to develop an understanding of strategy implementation in complex organizations, 2) to understand how organizational planning, design, control and human resource decisions are interdependent and critical to successful implementation, and 3) to develop a sensitivity to the \"realities\" of strategy implementation in \"real-world\" organizations.  Consideration of theories of implemenation is not sufficient; it is necessary also to see strategy implementation as a process of that change that, to be successful, must take a number of factors into consideration.  These include how decisions affect individuals in organizations and their consequent commitment to implementation efforts.  To meet these objectives, emphasis will be on lectures, class discussions, and case studies as the instructional techniques.", "title": "282. Strategic Implementation."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(MGMT783)", "num": "283", "description": "283. (MGMT783) Strategies for Economic Inclusion. Keith Weigelt. \n\nThe majority of humans, estimated to exceed 4 billion people, exist on incomes less than $3,000 per year.  Over 1 billion of these poor exist on less than $1 per day.  Many poor are denised the opportunity to engage in the global business environment.  Constraints they face include those of capital, knowledge, and services. \n\n This course is designed to attract those who are interested in the market for the poor.  It will provide a managerial guide to those who may want to pursue careers in this space.  The course is designed to present a multi-functional view of decisions managers will face.", "title": "283. (MGMT783) Strategies for Economic Inclusion."}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(MGMT788)", "num": "288", "description": "288. (MGMT788) Governance and Management of Chinese Firms. (A) Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nThis course provides an examination of some of the largest busines firms in thePeoples Republic of China, acquainting students with the governance and management (both management structure and management teams) of some of the largest and best known Chinese firms.  Students will also become acquainted withthe capabilities and liabilities of Chinese firms and their strategic options.  Tools needed to assess the investment potential of Chinese firms will be provided, and students will have an opportunity to do original research on issues of governance and management of Chinese firms.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "288. (MGMT788) Governance and Management of Chinese Firms. (A)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(LGST206, OPIM291)", "num": "291", "description": "291. (LGST206, OPIM291) Negotiations. Prerequisite(s): MGMT 100 & MGMT 101. \n\nThis course includes not only conflict resolution but techniques which help manage and even encourage the valuable aspects of conflict.  The central issues of this course deal with understanding the behavior of individuals, groups, and organizations in conflict management situations.  The purpose of this course is to understand the theory and processes of negotiations as it is practiced ina variety of settings.  The course is designed to be relevant to the broad specturm of problems that are faced by the manager and professional including management of multinationals, ethical issues, and alternative dispute resolutions.  Cross listed w/ LGST 206 & OPIM 291.", "title": "291. (LGST206, OPIM291) Negotiations."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "(LGST292, OPIM292)", "num": "292", "description": "292. (LGST292, OPIM292) Advanced Negotiation.", "title": "292. (LGST292, OPIM292) Advanced Negotiation."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "353", "description": "353. Wharton Field Challenge. Weigelt and Staff", "title": "353. Wharton Field Challenge. "}]