[null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "101", "description": "L/R 101. Introduction to Marketing. (C) Niedermeier. \n\nThe objective of this course is to introduce students to the concepts, analysis, and activities that comprise marketing management, and to provide practice in assessing and solving marketing problems.  The course is also a foundation for other Wharton courses, and for advanced electives in Marketing. Topics include marketing management, pricing, promotion, channels of distribution, salesforce management, and competitive analysis.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "101. Introduction to Marketing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG773)", "num": "211", "description": "211. (MKTG773) Consumer Behavior. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. \n\nAn examination of the factors (both internal and external) that influence people's behavior in a buying situation. \n\nCourse objectives are: (1) to provide conceptual understanding of consumer behavior, integrating theories from psychology, sociology, and economics; (2) to provide experience in the application of buyer behavior concepts to marketing management decisions; and (3) to introduce behavioral research approaches.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "211. (MKTG773) Consumer Behavior. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG756)", "num": "212", "description": "212. (MKTG756) Marketing Research. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101, STAT 101. \n\nAppreciation of the role of marketing research in the formulation and solution of marketing problems and development of the student's basic skills in conducting and evaluating marketing research projects.  Special emphasis is placed on problem formulation, research design, alternative methods of data collection (including data collection instruments, sampling, and field operations), and data analysis techniques.  Applications of modern marketing research procedures to a variety of marketing problems are explored.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "212. (MKTG756) Marketing Research. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "221", "description": "221. New Product Management. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. 0.5 c.u.  One-half term. \n\nExamination of the marketing aspects of products.  A total immersion in the new product development process. \n\nFocuses on decisions regarding product introduction, positioning, improvements, deletion, and the tools available for making these decisions.  May take this course or MKTG232, but not both.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "221. New Product Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG754)", "num": "222", "description": "222. (MKTG754) Pricing Policy. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101 and Sophomore standing. 0.5 c.u.  One-half term. \n\nThe pricing decision process including economic, marketing, and behavioral phenomena which constitute the environment for pricing decisions and the information and analytic tools useful to the decision maker.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "222. (MKTG754) Pricing Policy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "224", "description": "224. Advertising Management. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101 or permission of instructor. 0.5 c.u.  One-half term. \n\nExamination of the practice of advertising.  Focuses on decisions regarding advertising objectives, copy selection, budget setting and media selection. May take this course or MKTG 235, but not both.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "224. Advertising Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG793)", "num": "225", "description": "225. (MKTG793) Principles of Retailing. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. 0.5 c.u.  One-half term. \n\nThis course is an introduction to the management of retail operations.  Topics covered include: retail strategy, store location, product merchandising and display, vendor relations, and the marketing mix as it relates to retailers. The emphasis is on developing a basic understanding of what makes a retailing establishment run and on learning to apply this understanding.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "225. (MKTG793) Principles of Retailing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG728)", "num": "228", "description": "228. (MKTG728) Contagious: How Products, Ideas, and Behaviors Catch On. (C) Berger. Prerequisite(s): Marketing 101 and 211 are recommended, but not required. \n\nWhy do some products catch on and achieve huge popularity while others fail? Why do some behaviors spread like wildfire while others languish?  How do certain ideas seem to stick in memory while others disappear the minute you hear them?  More broadly, what factors lead to trends, social contagion, and social epidemics? \n\n This course looks at these and other topics as it examines how products, ideas, and behaviors catch on and become popular.  Marketers want their product to be popular, organizations want their social change initiative to catch on and entrepreneurs want their ideas to stick.  This course will provide insight into the factors underlying these dynamics.  To study these issues, students will read and discuss academic research from Psychology, Sociology, Economics, and Marketing (as well as other disciplines). \n\n Along the way, the course will touch on four main aspects:(1) Characteristics of products, ideas, and behaviors that lead them to be successful; (2) Intrapersonal processes, or aspects of individual psychology that influence what things are successful; (3) Interpersonal processes, or how interactions between individuals drive success; (4) Social networks, or how patterns of social ties influence success.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "228. (MKTG728) Contagious: How Products, Ideas, and Behaviors Catch On. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "232", "description": "232. New Product Development. (C) Hutchinson. Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. \n\nThe development of new products (goods or services) is an intensively cross-functional process.  This course examines that process from the marketing perspective and identifies the key points of contact with operations, finance, organizational policy, and strategic planning.  Although an overview of the entire process is provided in the course, special emphasis is placed on the evaluation of concepts early in the process.  Thus, this course is very much concerned with ideas and how to select the best ideas and make them a reality. \n\n The main objectives of the course are (1) to familiarize students with the strategies, frameworks, conceptual tools, and types of marketing research that are considered best practices in the development of new products and (2) to give students the opportunity to apply some of these ideas and methods in the evaluation of a specific product concept, customizing the learning experience to their own needs and interests.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "232. New Product Development. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG733)", "num": "233", "description": "233. (MKTG733) The Social Impact of Marketing. (C) Wes Hutchinson. Prerequisite(s): MKTG101 or permission of instructor. One half term - 0.5 c.u. \n\nThis course explores the ways in which the marketing actions of firms can have an impact on society (positive or negative).  Of particular interest are the actions that are central to the main products and services delivered by the firm (e.g., the development of products and brands, pricing, advertising, and distribution).  It adopts specific markets and also assesses impact in the aggr egate marketing and social systems within which those transactions occur. For example, many analyses examine how the actions for suppliers further back in the value chain contribute to social impact and become part of branding strategies and consumer perceptions.  This course contrasts with coures that focus on strategies for the design and execution of marketing programs for social causes, non-profit and non-governmental organizations or coporate social responsibility initiatives, although the material covered is foundational for such programs. \n\n The course is structured around four problem areas: impact on health and well-being (physical and mental), impact on the environment, impact on culture (including innovation and creativity), and impact on poverty and economic development.  In each area, we will identify marketing-related causal factors and assess current knowledge and controversies surrounding those factors. There is also a focus on current metrics for assessing social impact and how specific marketing actions and companies considered in the entirety can be \"scored\" in terms of their impact on society. \n\nStudents will learn how to conduct analayses of net social impact.  The course meets twice a week. Typically, one session is lecture and/or a case, and one session is an in-class event (e.g., guest speaker, student presentations, simulation game, etc.).  The main deliverables for the course are two position papers and a final short essay evalauating the social impact of companies or products in a specific industry.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "233. (MKTG733) The Social Impact of Marketing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "235", "description": "235. Principles of Advertising. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. May be substituted for MKTG 224 as part of Major.  Credit will not be given for both courses. \n\nMarketing management's use of advertising as a promotional variable.  The course will concentrate on concepts and theories of advertising as they apply to the strategic decisions of an advertising or brand manager.  Emphasis will be placed on product positioning, the communication process, and the measurement and evaluation of advertising effects.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "235. Principles of Advertising. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(LGST205, LGST805, MKTG760)", "num": "236", "description": "236. (LGST205, LGST805, MKTG760) Law of Marketing and Antitrust. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. \n\nStudy of the antitrust laws and the law of intellectual property.  Emphasis on the legality of various princing, promotion, and distribution strategies. Current developments are emphasized.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "236. (LGST205, LGST805, MKTG760) Law of Marketing and Antitrust. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(MKTG771)", "num": "271", "description": "SM 271. (MKTG771) Models for Marketing Strategy. (M) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101, STAT 101. \n\nThe purpose of the course is to help participants become better managers by exposing them to various tools developed for analyzing marketing decision problems, and by helping them understand different types of models that have been used to support marketing decisions.  The course provides participants with critical skills necessary for evaluating new marketing models about which they may read in the literature and it thus enables them to read the relevant literature more effectively.  Participants will understand marketing problems more clearly by analyzing them quantitatively and will become managers who are not likely to be taken advantage of by some quantitative consultants.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "271. (MKTG771) Models for Marketing Strategy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG777)", "num": "277", "description": "277. (MKTG777) Marketing Strategy. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. Lectures, discussions, cases. \n\nThis course introduces the student to problems in high-level marketing decision making with several strategic marketing planning frameworks frequently applied during the analysis of those problems.  The course will focus on a variety of management problems which include the following characteristics: (1) Several strategic business units are involved in the decision. (2) Competitors' behaviors are formally taken into account. (3) Long-term marketing advantages are sought. (4) Profit and other financial consequences are considered.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "277. (MKTG777) Marketing Strategy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "278", "description": "278. Strategic Brand Management. (C) Cassie Mogilner. Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. \n\nWhich brands make you happy?  Apple?  Starbucks?  The Daily Show?  Google? What draws you into these brands? \n\nHow do companies create compelling brand experiences?  How could you cultivate a well-loved brand?  This course explores such questions with the goal of identifying the ingredients for building an inspired brand, where brand is defined as \"a sensibility\" - departing from traditional perspectives of brand.  The course is created for students interested om building their own brands and/or immersing themselves in the enhancement of an existing brand, and it is comprised of lectures, cases, guest speakers, discussions, in and out of class exercises, all of which culminate in a brand audit group project that students will present in the final class session.  Broadly, the course will be divided into four parts: 10 Understanding Brand, 2) Crafting Brand, 3) Measuring Brand, and 4) Managing Brand.  The course will provide students with an appreciation of the role of branding and (taking a consumer-centric approach) will augment students' ability to think creatively and critically about the strategies and tactics involved in building, leveraging, defending, and sustaining inspired brands.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "278. Strategic Brand Management. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(MKTG781)", "num": "281", "description": "281. (MKTG781) Entrepreneurial Marketing. (M) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101; MKTG 212 (can take concurrently); students are discouraged from taking this course and MKTG 221 without the permission of the marketing undergraduate faculty advisor. 0.5 c.u.  One-half term. \n\nThis course focuses on the key marketing concepts and methods relevant for entrepreneurs.  In particular, it covers the marketing elements of new venture initiation (including a business plan), as well as marketing decisions for small and growing organizations.  Topics include product/service design, assessment of market potential, creation of successful distribution relationships, and new product pricing.  In contrast to the product development course, the emphasis here is on a new startup business rather than a new offering from an existing business.  Topics covered in this course also include low-budget or no-budget market research, successful strategic alternatives for small business, alternatives to high-cost advertising (e.g., direct marketing, alternative media, and personal selling) segmentation, and targeted marketing.  Students will prepare a marketing plan for an entrepreneurial organization of their choice, possibly for a new venture they are considering.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "281. (MKTG781) Entrepreneurial Marketing. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG782)", "num": "282", "description": "282. (MKTG782) Multinational Marketing. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. 0.5 c.u.  One-half term. \n\nGlobal marketing is an extremely demanding discipline but, from a career standpoint, one which is both challenging and rewarding.  Inherent to the success of any global marketing professional, yet many times overlooked and/or underappreciated, is the critical nature of human understanding and relationships in business planning and execution. \n\nThis is especially relevant in today's business environment when you consider the dual multinational company imperative of continued revenue and progfit growth in mature markets and successfully expanding into new growth and emerging markets.  This course assumes an understanding of marketing principles and some exposure to and appreciation of the global environment.  The objective of the course is to provide an undestanding of how the global environment (particularly cultural diversity) affects the application of marketing principles and business practice on a global basis and the compentencies necessary to be a successful global manager.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "282. (MKTG782) Multinational Marketing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "288", "description": "288. Pricing Strategies. (C) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101. \n\nThis course is designed to equip you with the concepts, techniques, and latest thinking on pricing issues, with an emphasis on ways in which you can help a firm improve its pricing.  The orientation of the course is about practice of pricing, not theory.  We will focus on how firms can improve profitability through pricing, look at how firms set their prices and how to improve current practices to increase profitability.  In the first part of the course you will learn how to analyze costs, customers, and competitors in order to formulate proactive pricing strategies.  In the second part of the course you will learn about price promotions, price bundling, price discrimination, versioning, nonlinear pricing, pricing through a distribution channel, dynamic pricing, etc.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "288. Pricing Strategies. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG792)", "num": "392", "description": "392. (MKTG792) SPECIAL TOPICS: Visual Aesthetics and Style in Retail Merchandising. (C) \n\nThis course is a visual and practical approach of understanding global styles and it involves readings, active participation in the creation of lifestyle boards, brand books, exercises to develop all the senses and the development of a total lifestyle concept.  Students will be exposed to the Through the Whitaker Lifestyle Segementation of the Global Consumer system and will learn: you will learn: How to anticipate and predict consumers needs and their style evolution; How to identify new retail opportunities; How to create innovative retail concepts and brands; How to merchandise the appropriate products for a specific lifestyle; and How to develop your intuition and creative power.  In addition, students will critically evaluate this style segmentation system and compare it to other segmentation approaches.  This course is relevant for students interested in developing their intuition and creativity.  The topics of this course are a foundation for anyone working in any area of the retail industry: marketing, merchandising, visual merchandising, store design, planning, advertising, etc.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "392. (MKTG792) SPECIAL TOPICS: Visual Aesthetics and Style in Retail Merchandising. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "394", "description": "394. Interactive Media Marketing. (C) Diamond. Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101 and MKTG 211. Students who have not taken MKTG211 may waive this requirement with instructor's permission. \n\nFew businesses experience as dramatic a paradigm shift as the one currently facing the media and entertainment industries.  As entertainment and techn ology converge in interative offerings, not only are media and entertainment being redefined, but also the underpinnings and business models on which those industries are based. \n\n This rapidly changing marketplace is also impacting those businesses traditionallly dependent upon media for advertising and brand building.  As the locus of control shifts from providers to consumers, it is imperative to understand the marketing implications of this shift as well as its impact on other industries.  Although media and entertainment are not traditional consumer products, they nonetheless face the same marketing mix issues of product, price, distribution, and promotion, and the need to understand the marketplace, their consumers, the decision making process, and behavioral drivers.  In the midst of change, these questions become more vexing and of paramount importantce for business survival. \n\n This course will examine the marketing implications of the media and entertainment industries evolution from its original one-to-many model, to its present transition into a more customized, individualized approach.  The course will begin by looking at the industries overall and the forces creating change.  The second section considers emerging media, the future of the media and entertainment industries and consumer experience moving forward.  This class is unique in that the instructor specializes in entertainment and marketing research; the class will draw upon practical experience and feature guest lectures from other industry experts.  Because the industry changes are happening real time, the class will focus heavily on current events rather than theory or academic research.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "394. Interactive Media Marketing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(MKTG896)", "num": "396", "description": "396. (MKTG896) Retail Merchandising. (M) Prerequisite(s): MKTG 101; MKTG 225. 0.5 c.u., One-half term. \n\nThis course provides a detailed introduction to the role of merchandising at various retailers, including apparel and other softlines businesses, grocery stores, mass-merchandisers and \"catagory killers\".  Selected topics may include product development, line planning, sourcing, product lifecycle, forecasting, planning and allocation, pricing and markdowns, and vendor relations.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "396. (MKTG896) Retail Merchandising. (M)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "399", "description": "399. Independent Study. Prerequisite(s): MKTG 212 and written permission of instructor and the department undergraduate advisor. Content arranged by project supervisor, 1.0 c.u.", "title": "399. Independent Study."}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MKTG776, STAT476)", "num": "476", "description": "476. (MKTG776, STAT476) Applied Probability Models for Marketing. (C) Fader. Prerequisite(s): A high comfort level with basic integral calculus and recent exposure to a formal course in probability and statistics such as STAT 430 is strongly recommended. \n\nThis course will expose students to the theoretical and empirical \"building blocks\" that will allow them to construct, estimate, and interpret powerful models of consumer behavior.  Over the years, researchers and practitioners have used these models for a wide variety of applications, such as new product sales, forecasting, analyses of media usage, and targeted marketing programs. Other disciplines have seen equally broad utilization of these techniques. The course will be entirely lecture-based with a strong emphasis on real-time problem solving.  Most sessions will feature sophisticated numerical investigations using Microsoft Excel.  Much of the material is highly technical.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "476. (MKTG776, STAT476) Applied Probability Models for Marketing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(J)", "crosslist": "", "num": "960", "description": "SM 960. Judgment and Decision Making Perspectives on Consumer Behavior. (J) PhD Course. \n\nAlternates with MKTG963.  Offered every other year. \n\nThe purpose of this course is to provide a solid foundation for critical thinking and research on the judgment, decision- making and choice aspects of consumer behavior.  There is a focus on how people process information when making judgements and choices and how the processes of judgement and choice might be improved.  Topics of discussion include rationality, judgment under uncertainty, judgment heuristics and biases, risk taking, dealing with conflicting values, framing effects, prospect theory, inter-temporal choice, preference formation, and the psychology of untility. \n\nThe focuse will be on the individual decision-maker, although the topics will also have some applicability to group and organizational decision-making and behavioral research methodologies.\n\n(Course offered spring even-numbered years.)", "title": "960. Judgment and Decision Making Perspectives on Consumer Behavior. (J)"}, {"offercode": "(K)", "crosslist": "", "num": "961", "description": "SM 961. Economic/OR Models of Marketing. (K) PhD Course.  Alternates with MKTG964.  Offered every other year. \n\nThis doctoral seminar reviews analytical models relevant to improving various aspects of marketing decisions such as new product launch, product line design, pricing strategy, advertising decisions, sales force organization and compensation, distribution channel design and promotion decisions.  The primary focus will be on analytical models. \n\nThe seminar will introduce the students to various types of analytical models used in research in marketing, including game theory models for competitive analysis, agency theory models for improving organization design and incentives within organizations, and optimization methods to improve decision making and resource allocation.  The course will enable students to become familiar with applications of these techniques in the marketing literature and prepare the students to apply these and other analytical approaches to research problems that are of interest to the students.\n\n(Course offered spring odd-numbered years.)", "title": "961. Economic/OR Models of Marketing. (K)"}, {"offercode": "(K)", "crosslist": "", "num": "963", "description": "SM 963. Information Processing Perspectives on Consumer Behavior. (K) PhD Course.  Alternates with MKTG960.  Offered every other year. \n\nThe purpose of this seminar is to provide graduate students with a solid foundation for critical thinking and research in psychology and marketing on information processing related topics.  Topics of discussion include consumer knowledge (learning, memory and categorization), attitude theory, persuasion, affect and social influence.  The course draws from the literature in marketing, psychology and economics.  The course will enable students to conceptualize, operationalize, and develop research ideas.  Therefore, the focus is on understanding theoretical and methodological approaches to various aspects of consumer behavior, as well as advancing this knowledge by developing testable hypotheses and theoretical perspectives that build on the current knowledge base.\n\n(Course offered spring odd-numbered years.)", "title": "963. Information Processing Perspectives on Consumer Behavior. (K)"}, {"offercode": "(J)", "crosslist": "", "num": "964", "description": "SM 964. Empirical Models in Marketing. (J) PhD Course.  Alternates with MKTG961.  Offered every other year. \n\nThis course is designed to generate awareness and appreciation of the way several substantive topics in marketing have been studied empirically using quantitative models.  This seminar reviews empirical models of marketing phenomena including consumer choice, adoption of new products, sales response to marketing mix elements, and competitive interaction.  Applies methods and concepts developed in econometrics and statistics but focuses on substantive issues of model structure and interpretation, rather than on estimation techniques.  Ultimately, the goals are a) to prepare students to read and understand the literature and b) to stimulate new research interests.  By the end of the course, students should be familiar with the key issues and approaches in empirical marketing modeling.\n\n(Course offered spring even-numbered years.)", "title": "964. Empirical Models in Marketing. (J)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "966", "description": "966. Measurement and Data Analysis in Marketing. (A) PhD Course. \n\nIn this course we consider models for binary, count, and continuous data including contingency table models, logistic and probit regression, ANOVA, ANCOVA, conjoint analysis, and OLS.  In addition we cover multidimensional techniques such as MDS, cluster analysis, principal components analysis, factor analysis, and discriminant analysis. \n\nWe utilize the statistics package SPlus 2000, and also BUGS for implementing many of the techniques described in a Bayesian manner.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "966. Measurement and Data Analysis in Marketing. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "967", "description": "SM 967. Research Methods in Marketing. (A) PhD Course. \n\nThis course provides an introduction to the fundamental methodological issues that arise in experimental and quasi- experimental research.  Illustrative examples are drawn from the behavioral sciences with a focus on the behavior of consumers and managers.  Topics that are covered include: the development of research ideas; data collection and reliable measurement procedures; threats to validity; control procedures and experimental designs; and data analysis. \n\nEmphasis is placed on attaining a working knowledge of the use of regression methods for non-experimental and quasi- experimental data and analysis of variance methods for experimental data.  The primary deliverable for this course is a meta-analysis of a research problem of the students choosing that investigates the effects of research methods on empirical results.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "967. Research Methods in Marketing. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "968", "description": "968. Advanced Topics in Marketing Research. (C) Ph.D.Course.  Offered alternate weeks from (MKTG 969) Advanced Topics in Consumer Behavior. \n\nThis course is taught collectively by the faculty members from the Marketing Department.  It is designed to expose advanced Ph.D. students (2nd year and up) to the cutting-edge research in marketing models in order to help them to define and advance their research interests (an equivalent course is also offered on behavior research).  This course will offer: in-depth discussions on some important topics in marketing by experts in respective areas; tools, and methodologies required for conducting research in those areas; broad exposure to our faculty members and their proven research styles.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "968. Advanced Topics in Marketing Research. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "969", "description": "969. Advanced Topics in Consumer Behavior. (C) Staff. PhD Course.  Offered alternate weeks from (MKTG968) Advanced Topics in Marketing Research. \n\nThe purpose of this course is to investigate advanced topics in consumer behavior.  This class will be organized in a way that allows you to 1) gain depth in important areas of consumer behavior research identified by faculty; 2) gain exposure to various faculty in marketing and their research values and styles; and 3) develope and advance your own research interests.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "969. Advanced Topics in Consumer Behavior. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "970", "description": "SM 970. Seminar in Marketing Strategy. (C) Intended for 2nd year PhD students and above. \n\nThis PhD seminar is designed to help students understand the roles of marketing within the organization, its business strategy, and its success.  It exposes students to the main issues in marketing strategy and marketing strategy research, and helps them critically evaluate both fundamental ideas and more recent developments. \n\n The course follows a weekly seminar discussion format requiring each participant to be actively involved in each session.  Participants will be assigned readings to present or critique, but all participants will be expected to have read every paper.  Students will be assessed based on class contributions, short response papers, and a term paper.  The term paper will address an important issue in marketing strategy.  It will comprise a research question that is grounded in the relevant literature, a motivation for studying the question , and a proposal for researching it.  The proposed research could take the form of an analystical model with a well-specified structure or an empirical study involving an experiment, quasi-experiment, survey, analysis of secondary data, or meta-analysis.  The paper will be due on the last day of the exam period.  During the last class, each student will make a presentation of their proposed study and share what they have learned so far with the class.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "970. Seminar in Marketing Strategy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "995", "description": "995. Dissertation. (C)\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "995. Dissertation. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "999", "description": "999. Supervised Independent Study. (C) Staff. Ph.D course. \n\nRequires written permission of instructor and the department graduate adviser.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "999. Supervised Independent Study. (C) "}]