[null, null, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HIST089)", "num": "001", "description": "001. (HIST089) Intro to Modern India. (C) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Rawat. \n\nThis introductory course will provide an outline of major events and themes in Indian history, from the Mughal Empire in the 16th century to the re-emergence of India as a global player in the 21st century.  The course will discuss the following themes: society and economy in Mughal India; global trade between India and the West in the 17th century; the rise of the English East India Company's control over Indian subcontinent in the 18th century; its emergence and transformation of India into a colonial economy; social and religious reform movements in the 19th century; the emergence of elite and popular anti-colonial nationalisms; independence and the partition of the subcontinent; the emergence of the world's largest democracy; the making of an Indian middle class; and the nuclearization of South Asia.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "001. (HIST089) Intro to Modern India. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH107, URBS122)", "num": "002", "description": "002. (ANTH107, URBS122) The City in South Asia. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Mitchell. \n\nThis interdisciplinary social science course examines key topics, themes, and analytic methods in the study of South Asia (India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Nepal) by focusing on significant South Asian cities.  With one-fifth of the world population, South Asia and its urban centers are playing an increasingly important role in recent global economic transformations, resulting in fundamental changes within both the subcontinent and the larger world. \n\nDrawing primarily on ethnographic studies of South Asia in the context of rapid historical change, the course also incorporates research urban studies, architecture, political science, and history, as well as fiction and film.  Cities of particular focus may include Bangalore, Chandigarh, Chennai, Colombo, Delhi, Dhaka, Hyderabad, Kathmandu, Karachi, Kolkata, Lahore, and Mumbai.  Topics include globalization and new economic dynamics in South Asia; the formation of a new urban middle class; consumption and consumer culture; urban political formations, democratic institutions, and practices; criminality and the underworld; population growth, changes in the built environment, and demographic shifts; everyday life in South Asia and ethnic, cultural and linguistic identities, differences and violence in South Asia's urban environments. \n\n This course is appropriate for students with no background in South Asia, or for those seeking to better understand South Asia's urban environments in the context of recent globalization and rapid historical changes.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "002. (ANTH107, URBS122) The City in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HIST086, RELS164)", "num": "003", "description": "003. (HIST086, RELS164) History, Culture, Religion in Early India. (C) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Ali. \n\nThis course surveys the culture, religion and history of India from 2500 BCE to 1200 CE.  The course examines the major cultural, religious and social factors that shaped the course of early Indian history.  The following themes will be covered: the rise and fall of Harappan civilization, the Aryan invasion and vedic India, the rise of cities, states and the religions of Buddhism and Jainism, the historical context of the growth of classical Hinduism, including the Mahabharata, Ramayana and the development of the theistic temple cults of Saivism and Vaisnavism, processes of medieval agrarian expansion and cultic incorporation as well as the spread of early Indian cultural ideas in Southeast Asia.  In addition to assigned secondary readings students will read select primary sources on the history religion and culture of early India, including Vedic and Buddhist texts, Puranas and medieval temple inscriptions.  Major objectives of the course will be to draw attention to India's early cultural and religious past and to assess contemporary concerns and ideologies in influencing our understanding and representation of that past.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "003. (HIST086, RELS164) History, Culture, Religion in Early India. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(COML005)", "num": "004", "description": "004. (COML005) India's Literature: Love, War, Wisdom and Humor. (C) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Patel. \n\nThis course introduces students to the extraordinary quality of literary production during the past four millennia of South Asian civilization.  We will read texts in translation from all parts of South Asia up to the sixteenth century.  Our semester covers seminal genres that also serve as the organizing principles for the course: the hymn, the lyric, the epic, the gnomic, the dramatic, the political, the prosaic, the tragic and the comedic. No background in South Asia studies or South Asian languages is required for this course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "004. (COML005) India's Literature: Love, War, Wisdom and Humor. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MUSC165)", "num": "005", "description": "005. (MUSC165) Performing Arts in South Asia. (C) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Miner. \n\nThis course is a survey of selected traditions of theater, music, and dance in India and surrounding regions.  Topics include ritual practices, theater, classical dance, classical music, devotional music, regional genres, and contemporary popular musics.  Readings and lectures are supplemented by audio and visual materials and live performances.  The aim of the course is to expose students to a variety of performance practices from this part of the world and to situate the performing arts in their social and cultural contexts.  The course has no prerequisites.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "005. (MUSC165) Performing Arts in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(RELS066)", "num": "006", "description": "SM 006. (RELS066) Hindu Mythology. (C) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Gambhir, S. \n\nPremodern India produced some of the world's greatest myths and stories: tales of gods, goddesses, heroes, princesses, kings and lovers that continue to capture the imaginations of millions of readers and hearers.  In this course, we will look closely at some of these stories especially as found in Purana-s, great compendia composed in Sanskrit, including the chief stories of the central gods of Hinduism: Visnu, Siva, and the Goddess.  We will also consider the relationship between these texts and the earlier myths of the Vedas and the Indian Epics, the diversity of the narrative and mythic materials within and across different texts, and the re-imagining of these stories in India's vernacular languages as well as in the modern world.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "006. (RELS066) Hindu Mythology. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(RELS068)", "num": "008", "description": "008. (RELS068) India: Culture and Society. (M) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Viswanath. \n\nWhat makes India INDIA?  Religion and Philosophy?  Architectural splendor? Kingdoms?  Caste?  The position of women?  This course will introduce students to India by studying a range of social and cultural institutions that have historically assumed to be definitive India.  Through primary texts, novels and historical sociological analysis, we will ask how these institutions have been reproduced and transformed, and assess their significance for contemporary Indian society.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "008. (RELS068) India: Culture and Society. (M)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ASAM012)", "num": "052", "description": "SM 052. (ASAM012) Indians Overseas: A Global View. (C) Gambhir. \n\nThis course is about the history of Indian emigration.  The course will consist of readings, discussions, observations, data collection and analysis. The topics will include cultural preservation and cultural change among East Indian immigrants especially in North America, the Caribbean area, the United Kingdom, the African continent, and some other countries in the Pacific Ocean. The course will encourage organized thinking, observations and analysis of components of the culture that immigrant communities are able to preserve and components that change or get reinterpreted.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "052. (ASAM012) Indians Overseas: A Global View. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ENGL016)", "num": "053", "description": "SM 053. (ENGL016) Literature and National Trauma: Partition and Independence in South Asia. (C) Kaul. \n\nThis course will examine the way in which imaginative literature and film have addressed the difficult socio-political issues leading up to, and following from, the independence and partition of British India.  Pakistan and India came into being as nation-states in moments of great national trauma: historians have long argued over the process that led up to Partition, and we will study some of these debates, but for the most part we will examine novels, short stories, poetry, and some films to think about the impact of Partition and Independence on communities and individuals in South Asia. \n\nIn doing so, we will recognize the continuing role played by these events and experiences in shaping the cultural, social, and political realities of contemporary South Asia.  We will also learn about the crucial role played by literary and creative texts in making available to us the full dimensions of human tragedy, especially those precipitated when the imperatives of nation-formation redefine the lives of individuals or of sub-national communities.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "053. (ENGL016) Literature and National Trauma: Partition and Independence in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "054", "description": "SM 054. Material Culture of South Asia. (C) Gangulee. \n\nIndia has been described as a palimpsest of cultures as well as a land of a million mutinies.  Material bases of any culture rest on its ideas of itself, its innovations, what it produces and consumes, its ideas of social organization and political governance.  In this course we shall examine the material bases of South Asian culture, its mode of production, consumption and distribution of surplus product and how over the last five thousand years, the ideas behind these modes have been put forward, contested and negotiated for acceptance.  Some of these ideas have come from emigration and immigration, some from invasion and some have simply sprung up.  We will begin by looking at the Indian materiality in language, rituals, spatial analyses of towns, weights and measures.  We will go on to the rituals and materiality of the Indo-Aryans, the political thought that evolved, to the scientific thinking and technological innovations, the Grand Mughals, the European colonial period, Nehru's independent India, the liberalized economy of India in 1991 and end with the present.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "054. Material Culture of South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "057", "description": "SM 057. Planning to be Off-shore?. (C) Gangulee. \n\nIn this course we will trace the economic development of India from 1947 to the present.  Independent India started out as a centrally planned economy in 1949 but in 1991 decided to reduce its public sector and allow, indeed encourage, foreign investors to come in.  The Planning Commission of India still exists but has lost much of its power.  Many in the U.S. complain of American jobs draining off to India, call centers in India taking care of American customer complaints, American patient histories being documented in India, etc.  At the same time, the U.S. government encourages highly trained Indians to be in the U.S. \n\n Students are expected to write four one-page response papers and one final paper.  Twenty percent of the final grade will be based on class participation, 20 percent on the four response papers and 60 percent on the final paper.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "057. Planning to be Off-shore?. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(MUSC062)", "num": "105", "description": "105. (MUSC062) Beginning Tabla II. (B) Bhatti. \n\nA continuation of Tabla I, also open to beginning students.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "105. (MUSC062) Beginning Tabla II. (B)"}, null, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(MUSC060)", "num": "104", "description": "104. (MUSC060) Beginning Tabla I. (A) Bhatti. \n\nAn introduction to the tabla, the premier drum of north Indian and Pakistani classical music traditions.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "104. (MUSC060) Beginning Tabla I. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(MUSC061)", "num": "106", "description": "106. (MUSC061) Beginning Sitar I. (A) Miner. \n\nThis course is an introduction to the repertoire and performance practices of the North Indian sitar.  Fundamentals of sitar technique, composition, and improvisation are presented and practiced in class.  Class lectures and discussions, audio and video material, and reading and listening assignments on selected topics supplement practice, to provide an overview of the social and historical context and the formal structures of North Indian music in general.  There are no prerequisites for the course, but some experience with instrumental or vocal music is suggested.  Each student is expected to put in two hours of individual practice per week, and complete reading, audio, and written assignments. \n\nThe class gives a group performance at the end of the semester.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "106. (MUSC061) Beginning Sitar I. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(MUSC063)", "num": "107", "description": "107. (MUSC063) Beginning Sitar II. (B) Miner. \n\nThis is the second semester of a performance course in the North Indian sitar Students who have not taken the first semester but play any musical instrument are permitted to join.  Principles of composition and improvisation will be explored in practice and supplemented by readings and listening.  The class gives a group performance at the end of the semester.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "107. (MUSC063) Beginning Sitar II. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MUSC161)", "num": "108", "description": "108. (MUSC161) Intermediate Sitar I. (C) Miner. \n\nThis is a performance course open to students who have completed both semesters of Beginning Sitar, or to others by permission from the instructor. Students will work with right and left-hand techniques, study three ragas in depth, learn the contours of several other ragas, and work with concepts of tala, composition, and improvisation.  Assigned readings and listenings will complement the performed material.  A group performance will be given at the end of the semester.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "108. (MUSC161) Intermediate Sitar I. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MUSC162)", "num": "109", "description": "109. (MUSC162) Intermediate Sitar II. (C) Miner. \n\nThis is a continuation of an intermediate performance course in the North Indian sitar.  It is open to students by permission of the instructor. Students who play other instruments and have had at least a beginning level of training in Hindustani music may also join, with the permission of the instructor.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "109. (MUSC162) Intermediate Sitar II. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MUSC164)", "num": "115", "description": "115. (MUSC164) India's Classical Musics. (C) Miner. \n\nHindustani and Karnatak music are among the great classical music systems of the world.  Developed in temple, shrine, court, and concert stage environments in North and South India, they have a strong contemporary following in urban South Asia and a significant international presence.  This course is an introduction to theory, structures, instruments, and aesthetics.  We will work with primary and secondary texts, recordings, videos, and live performances. Topics will cover selected aspects of raga, tala, composition, improvisation and social contexts.  The course aims to give students analytical and listening skills with which to approach and appreciate India's classical music.  No prior music training is required.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "115. (MUSC164) India's Classical Musics. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(MUSC466)", "num": "116", "description": "116. (MUSC466) Music Cultures of North India and Pakistan. (C) Miner. \n\nA great variety of song and instrumental genres have thrived in the Hindu and Muslim milieus of North India and Pakistan.  In this course we examine a selection of urban and rural musics, such as instrumental music in Baluchistan, qawwali in Delhi, the garba of Gujarat, ballad singing of Rajasthan and the urban music of Calcutta.  We will explore the sounds, poetry, historical, and social contexts of chosen genres and trace aspects of continuity and adaptation in the changing environment of contemporary South Asia.  Readings are supplemented by audio-visual material and live performances.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "116. (MUSC466) Music Cultures of North India and Pakistan. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ARTH104, SAST500)", "num": "200", "description": "200. (ARTH104, SAST500) Introduction to Art in South Asia. (C) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Meister/Staff. \n\nThis course is a survey of sculpture, painting and architecture in the Indian sub-continent from 2300 B.C., touching on the present.  It attempts to explore the role of tradition in the broader history of art in India, but not to see India as 'traditional' or unchanging.  The Indian sub-continent is the source for multi-cultural civilizations that have lasted and evolved for several thousand years.  Its art is as rich and complex as that of Europe, and as diverse.  This course attempts to introduce the full range of artistic production in India in relation to the multiple strands that have made the cultural fabric of the sub-continent so rich and long lasting.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "200. (ARTH104, SAST500) Introduction to Art in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE215, GSOC213, GSOC513, SAST513)", "num": "213", "description": "213. (CINE215, GSOC213, GSOC513, SAST513) Indian Cinema and Society. (C) Joshi.P. \n\n Screenings will be held.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "213. (CINE215, GSOC213, GSOC513, SAST513) Indian Cinema and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ARTH104, SAST200)", "num": "500", "description": "500. (ARTH104, SAST200) Introduction to Art in South Asia. (M) Meister/Staff. \n\nThis course is a survey of sculpture, painting and architecture in the Indian sub-continent from 2300 B.C., touching on the present.  It attempts to explore the role of tradition in the broader history of art in India, but not to see India as 'traditional' or unchanging.  The Indian sub-continent is the source for multi-cultural civilizations that have lasted and evolved for several thousand years.  Its art is as rich and complex as that of Europe, as diverse. This course attempts to introduce the full range of artistic production in India in relation to the multiple strands that have made the cultural fabric of the sub-continent so rich and long lasting.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "500. (ARTH104, SAST200) Introduction to Art in South Asia. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ARTH501)", "num": "502", "description": "SM 502. (ARTH501) Proseminar in Indian Art. (C) Meister.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "502. (ARTH501) Proseminar in Indian Art. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ARTH514)", "num": "505", "description": "SM 505. (ARTH514) Aspects of Indian Art. (C) Meister. \n\nAspects of sculpture, painting, iconography, or architecture in the Indian sub-continent.  Topic varies.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "505. (ARTH514) Aspects of Indian Art. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CINE215, GSOC513, SAST213)", "num": "513", "description": "513. (CINE215, GSOC513, SAST213) Indian Cinema and Society. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course will meet for three hours to view and discuss a variety of films/videos in Hindi, Tamil, Bengali, Urdu (with English subtitles), and English, which bring up issues of social, political, and cultural significance.  Readings for the course will include articles in various fields ranging from film studies and communication to sociolinguistics and women's studies.  Discussions will focus on cinema as a means of expression and as an instrument for social change, examining the various ways in which films both reflect and influence contemporary culture.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "513. (CINE215, GSOC513, SAST213) Indian Cinema and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST224)", "num": "524", "description": "524. (SAST224) Growing up Funny: Nation and Identity in South Asian Writing. (C) Loomba. \n\nIt is a curious fact that some of the most compelling fiction about and by South Asians features the coming of age of a child protagonist.  This body of writing appropriates and reshapes the classic European Bildungsroman, but it also uses narrative traditions from South Asia in order to tell the story of the postcolonial nation, and to chart the contours of contemporary South Asian identity and sexuality.  In this course, we will read novels, short stories and plays--some well known and others less so, some now considered 'classics' and others very recent, produced from within the Indian subcontinent as well as from the West.  All of these speak of the excitement and trauma of growing up 'Indian'. \n\nThrough them, we will discuss key features of the political and social upheavals of the Indian subcontinent, as well as the dynamics of the family, gender relations, sexual identities and cultural belonging.  The course will include writings by Rudyard Kipling, Salman Rushdie, Bapsi Sidhwa, Amitav Ghosh, Mahasweta Devi, Hanif Kureishi, Anjana Appachana, Arundhati Roy, Meera Sanyal, Sara Suleri, Shyam Selvadurai, and Mahesh Dattani.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "524. (SAST224) Growing up Funny: Nation and Identity in South Asian Writing. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ASAM510, CINE793, COML653, ENGL591, SAST310)", "num": "610", "description": "SM 610. (ASAM510, CINE793, COML653, ENGL591, SAST310) Topics in South Asian Cinema. (C) Majithia. \n\nIn this course we will focus on post colonial global modernity as they are imaged through cinema.  Foregrounding the concept of affect, we will consider topics such as: the role of mass affect and mass culture; nationalism , community, sentimentality and nostalgia; film technology and film industry development as productive of a history of the senses; affect and the (gendered and racialized) subject and body, film genres and development of post colonial modernism; style; cinephilia and production of publics; representat ions of popular religiosity; and the relationship between feeling and ideology.  We will examine films that suggest particular affective states.  Our study will be interdisciplinary and readings will draw on fields of cinema, area studies as well as anthropology, philosophy and history.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "610. (ASAM510, CINE793, COML653, ENGL591, SAST310) Topics in South Asian Cinema. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(RELS008)", "num": "122", "description": "122. (RELS008) Indian Epics. (C) Staff. \n\nIn this course we will explore the two Indian epic masterpieces, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, poems that are among the most important pieces of imaginative writing in world history.  By examining these, both through translation of their Sanskrit originals as well as reworkings in text and performance (including film and other media), we'll try to understand the fundamental claims made by the epics about family and political life, the ethics of violence, and the status of gender.  The epics present startling and contrasting understandings of the social world in its ideal state as well as in its destruction, and these visions of order and chaos will be our recurrent themes throughout.  This course is introductory and assumes no previous knowledge.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "122. (RELS008) Indian Epics. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(COML077, ENGL077)", "num": "124", "description": "124. (COML077, ENGL077) Literature and Empire. (C) Loomba. \n\nSince the sixteenth century English has been, among other things, an imperial language, and ideas about empire and imperialism have shaped not only many of English literature's central texts but also the development of English literary study as a discipline.  This course is an introduction to the way imperial contact and changing ideas about empire and decolonization have shaped literature in English from the sixteenth to the twentieth centuries. We will consider historical and cultural materials to offer contexts for literary production of texts from the sixteenth to the twentieth centuries. The course also will serve as a comprehensive introduction to the way literary and cultural representations of Europe have been influenced by changing ideas about empire and imperialism.  Different versions of the course will vary in the historical and cultural material they cover as they offer a context for literary production.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "124. (COML077, ENGL077) Literature and Empire. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST524)", "num": "224", "description": "224. (SAST524) Growing up Funny: Nation and Identity in South Asian Writing. (C) Loomba. \n\nIt is a curious fact that some of the most compelling fiction about and by South Asians features the coming of age of a child protagonist.  This body of writing appropriates and reshapes the classic European Bildungsroman, but it also uses narrative traditions from South Asia in order to tell the story of the postcolonial nation, and to chart the contours of contemporary South Asian identity and sexuality.  In this course, we will read novels, short stories and plays--some well known and others less so, some now considered 'classics' and others very recent, produced from within the Indian subcontinent as well as from the West.  All of these speak of the excitement and trauma of growing up 'Indian'. \n\nThrough them, we will discuss key features of the political and social upheavals of the Indian subcontinent, as well as the dynamics of the family, gender relations, sexual identities and cultural belonging.  The course will include writings by Rudyard Kipling, Salman Rushdie, Bapsi Sidhwa, Amitav Ghosh, Mahasweta Devi, Hanif Kureishi, Anjana Appachana, Arundhati Roy, Meera Sayal, Sara Suleri, Shyam Selvadurai, and Mahesh Dattani.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "224. (SAST524) Growing up Funny: Nation and Identity in South Asian Writing. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(RELS143)", "num": "139", "description": "139. (RELS143) Introduction to Islam. (C) Elias. \n\nThis course is an introduction to Islam as a religion as it exists in societies of the past as well as the present.  It explores the many ways in which Muslims have interpreted and put into practice the prophetic message of Muhammad through historical and social analyses of varying theological, philosophical, legal, political, mystical and literary writings, as well as through visual art and music.  The aim of the course is to develop a framework for explaining the sources and symbols through which specific experiences and understandings have been signified as Islamic, both by Muslims and by other peoples with whom they have come into contact, with particular emphasis given to issues of gender, religious violence and changes in beliefs and behaviors which have special relevance for contemporary society.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "139. (RELS143) Introduction to Islam. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(RELS163)", "num": "140", "description": "140. (RELS163) Introduction to Hinduism. (C) Staff. \n\nHindu religious beliefs and practices from the earliest period to the present, stressing contemporary religious thought, performances, and institutions and their historical backgrounds.  Basic human issues such as the origin and nature of the world and society, the meaning of personal existence, sex, birth, death, human responsibility, the family, destiny, and the variety of Hindu understandings of them as revealed in myth, story, philosophy, and ritual will be the focus of this course.  Readings will mostly be original sources in English translation.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "140. (RELS163) Introduction to Hinduism. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH142, RELS142)", "num": "141", "description": "141. (ANTH142, RELS142) Islam in South Asian Culture. (C) Spooner. \n\nIslam reached South Asia in the eighth century and Muslim rulers held sway over large parts of the Subcontinent for much of the period from the late 12th century until the colonial period.  However, the majority of the population never converted to Islam, and since independence in 1947 Islam--its interpretation, realization, and influence--has been a major factor underlying many difficult political issues.  This has been true not only in the largest country, India, where Muslims form 12% (unevenly distributed) of the population, but in Bangladesh and Pakistan where non-Muslims are relatively insignificant minorities.  This course explores the realities and the perceptions related to Muslim identities and the Islamic heritage in the Subcontinent, and sets it in global context by comparison with other parts of the world which share various aspects of the South Asian experience.  The course will conclude with an assessment of the larger significance--social, economic and political, as well as cultural--of Islam in South Asia today.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "141. (ANTH142, RELS142) Islam in South Asian Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(RELS173)", "num": "142", "description": "142. (RELS173) Introduction to Buddhism. (C) Staff. \n\nAn examination of the fundamentals of Buddhist thought and practice.  In addition to reading and discussing selected primary Buddhist sources (in English Translation), we shall review the history and development of Buddhism from its Indian origins through its spread to Southeast Asia, Central Asia, Tibet, China, Korea, and Japan.  Primary sources and historical materials will be supplemented by some ethnographic readings dealing with the actualities of Buddhist life in contemporary Southeast and East Asia.  This course provides basic background for more advanced courses on Buddhism.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "142. (RELS173) Introduction to Buddhism. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(RELS360, SAST650)", "num": "350", "description": "350. (RELS360, SAST650) Themes in Indian Philosophy. (C) Sharma. \n\nTopics vary.  When the topic is Yoga philosophy, the following applies.  Yoga is a classical school of Indian philosophy that consists of a unique metaphysics epistemology, and ethics.  Yoga in the contemporary context usually refers to a system of physical and spiritual exercises that draw from this philosophy.  In this course, we will read the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali in English translation from the original Sanskrit, with commentary.  We will go over all central concepts, technical terms, and historical developments in the philosophy of Yoga.  We will also discuss the philosophy of Hatha Yoga in the context of its historical and practical developments.  No prior knowledge of Indian philosophy is required for this course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "350. (RELS360, SAST650) Themes in Indian Philosophy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST350)", "num": "650", "description": "650. (SAST350) Themes in Indian Philosophy. (C) Staff. \n\nTopics vary.  When the topic is Yoga philosophy, the following applies.  Yoga is a classical school of Indian philosophy that consists of a unique metaphysics epistemology, and ethics.  Yoga in the contemporary context usually refers to a system of physical and spiritual exercises that draw from this philosophy.  In this course, we will read the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali in English translation from the original Sanskrit, with commentary.  We will go over all central concepts, technical terms, and historical developments in the philosophy of Yoga.  We will also discuss the philosophy of Hatha Yoga in the context of its historical and practical developments.  No prior knowledge of Indian philosophy is required for this course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "650. (SAST350) Themes in Indian Philosophy. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HIST384, SAST560)", "num": "260", "description": "SM 260. (HIST384, SAST560) Modern History of Afghanistan and Pakistan. (C) Caron. \n\nThis course is designed as an introduction to the contemporary history of Afghanistan and Pakistan, with an emphasis on the intertwined history of both countries; their other regional neighbors; and global politics.  The course focuses on global trends such as empire, nationalism, the Cold War, superpower competition, and transnational Islamism.  At the same time, participants will explore how local people viewed their lives amidst these trends, and how local dynamics on this northwestern fringe of the Subcontinent changed the face of global politics.  The readings supplement political and economic history with primary sources drawn from popular poetry, oral narrative, and memoir. Finally, we'll be following current events in the region, and placing them in their sociohistorical context.  Therefore, there are two main goals for this course: (1) to introduce the specific history of Afghanistan and Pakistan up to present, and (2) to introduce typologies of social institutions and events, assisting class participants to develop their own frameworks for interpreting current events in the region after the end of the course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "260. (HIST384, SAST560) Modern History of Afghanistan and Pakistan. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST562)", "num": "262", "description": "262. (SAST562) The Making of Medieval India. (C) Ali. \n\nThis course will provide an in-depth understanding of South Asia in what is often called its 'medieval' period--from the rise of the great temple kingdoms until the end of the Delhi Sultanate in the sixteenth century (c.  500 CE - c. 1500 CE). \n\nThis millenium is arguably one of the most transformative in South Asia's history, a period when many of its most distinctive social and cultural features evolved.  The course will provide both an overview of the period as well as an introduction to major interpretations and types of sources (textual, visual, and archaeological).  The focus throughout the course will be on the heterogeneous development of states, societies and cultures with special attention to long-term processes of transformation.  One set of themes explored will be largely social and economic, focusing on the development of agrarian and peasant societies, aristocracies and intellectuals, as well as the role of mercantile, pastoralist, nomadic and forest-living groups. Another set of themes will explore cultural transformation, including the development, transformation and interaction of religious practices, the emergence of cosmopolitan and regional literary cultures, and the rise of distinctive urban, courtly, and rural world views. \n\n Special themes of discussion may include violence and manners, material cultures, religious conflict, devotional religion and gender relations.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "262. (SAST562) The Making of Medieval India. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HIST384, SAST260)", "num": "560", "description": "SM 560. (HIST384, SAST260) Modern History of Afghanistan and Pakistan. (C) Staff. \n\nAn overview of the shared and conflicting legacy of history between the two countries; their role in shaping the contours of global politics in that region.  Social, ethnic, religious, and sectarian discourses with power politics, the rise of religious militancy, Taliban, their predecessors and potential successors will also be discussed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "560. (HIST384, SAST260) Modern History of Afghanistan and Pakistan. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST262)", "num": "562", "description": "562. (SAST262) The Making of Medieval India. (C) Ali. \n\nThis course will provide an in-depth understanding of South Asia in what is often called its 'medieval' period--from the rise of the great temple kingdoms until the end of the Delhi Sultanate in the sixteenth century (c.  500 CE - c. 1500 CE). \n\nThis millennium is arguably one of the most transformative in South Asia's history, a period when many of its most distinctive social and cultural features evolved.  The course will provide both an overview of the period as well as an introduction to major interpretations and types of sources (textual, visual, and archaeological).  The focus throughout the course will be on the heterogeneous development of states, societies and cultures with special attention to long-term processes of transformation.  One set of themes explored will be largely social and economic, focusing on the development of agrarian and peasant societies, aristocracies and intellectuals, as well as the role of mercantile, pastoralist, nomadic and forest-living groups. Another set of themes will explore cultural transformation, including the development, transformation and interaction of religious practices, the emergence of cosmopolitan and regional literary cultures, and the rise of distinctive urban, courtly, and rural worldviews. \n\n Special themes of discussion may include violence and manners, material cultures, religious conflict, devotional religion and gender relations.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "562. (SAST262) The Making of Medieval India. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH166)", "num": "166", "description": "166. (ANTH166) Democracy in India and South Asia. (C) Mitchell. \n\nThis course will examine the histories, actors, and practices that have shaped the world's largest democracy.  What historical and scoio-cultural forces have made Indian democracy unique in the modern world, and distinctive from other South Asian nations that have faced similar colonial history?  What conditions have enabled some South Asian nations to embrace democracy and prevented others from doing so?  Using primary and secondary historical sources and ethnographic studies of everyday political life in South Asia, this course will focus on political organizations, movements, individuals, and practices that have played a decisive role in establishing and uniquely shaping democracy in South Asian subcontinent.  We will pay close attention to the role of individual leaders and charismatic figures, including key women and minority leaders, and trace the development of \"dynasties\" within electoral politics.  The course will also examine the history of public space as a forum for some of the distinctive practices that have most defined democracy in South Asia, including bandhs(strikes), rasta rokos ( road closures), processions, and other non- violent and sometimes violent forms of action. \n\n We will trace pre-colonial, colonial, and contemporary influences, and pay particular attention to ideological role of Gandhian principles, including ahimsa (non-violence) and satyagraha (passive resistance), in establishing popular forms of political practice that continue to be widely utilized in contemporary Indian and South Asian politics.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "166. (ANTH166) Democracy in India and South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSCI257)", "num": "256", "description": "256. (PSCI257) International Relations of South Asia. (C) Frankel. \n\nOne of the great accidents of history is the Partition of the subcontinent into the two states of India and Pakistan, and the onset of the cold war as a global struggle between the United States and the Soviet Union.  The major focus of the course is on the interaction between regional conflicts, the most enduring symbolized by the unresolved dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir, and the global strategies of rival great powers which sought to tip the balance of power in their favor by military and ideological influence over the \"third world.\" These conflicts were exacerbated by the Indian leadership's commitment to an independent foreign policy of non-alignment, and its aspirations to leadership of newly independent states in Asia and Middle East, ranged against Pakistan's inability to establish a viable state without exernal support.  The resulting alignments and alliances drew the subcontinent into the center of cold war rivalries.  The last part of the course focuses on the changing security environment after the cold war, the rise of India and China as competitors for influence; and problems posed by persisting mutual resentment and distrust in India and the United States, despite recognition on both sides of the need to cooperate and avoid China's domination of Asia.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "256. (PSCI257) International Relations of South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "280", "description": "SM 280. Rivals In a Rising Asia. (C) Gangulee. \n\nJust the thought of almost 4 billion people rising out of poverty and a billion of them them expected to be millionaires is exhilarating and daunting. But there is no single blue print for economic development, at least not yet. Given its natural resources, ideology, politics and cultural sensibilities, each nation experiments with various strategies of development.  All we know at this point is that land reform, education, good governance, health, an access to technology and an open economy contribute heavily towards development.  This course will offer the history and implications of socio-economic development in Asia.  We will look at the theories of development, their applications and the results on the various nations in China and South Asia.  Managing development is also a critical issue.  We will examine if social development is a linear outcome of economic growth.  We will also analyze topics such as democracy, equity, education, micro-finance, poverty, religions and value systems, sustainable development, intellectual property rights, issues of public health including pandemics and the effect of a rising Asia on the Asian Diaspora, especially on the Asian Americans.  In the course of a socio- economic development, China and India are bidding for a world seat. \n\n Though India and Pakistan talk of an attitudinal shift towards each other they still have armies facing one another across Kashmir.  Bangladesh has severe economic and political problems that affect its policies regarding India and Pakistan.  And, each of these nations have internal problems of their own. There are no pre-requisite courses for this class but we will require an open mind, a liking for critical analysis and developmental issues.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "280. Rivals In a Rising Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSCI256, SAST584)", "num": "284", "description": "284. (PSCI256, SAST584) International Relations of the United States and Asia. (C) Frankel. \n\nThis course is one of the first arising out of scholarship on cold war international history.  It draws on declassified government documents and other archival records to provide a window into the world-view of decision-makers who need to make national security policy based on incomplete information about ambiguous threats.  The materials reveal a great deal about the importance of divergent historical perspectives and strategic cultures in the foreign policy- making process.  The main focus of the course is on the intersection of the cold war and the rise of Asian nationalism. \n\nAt the core of the analysis is the clash between America's global strategy of military containment against the Soviet Union and the assertion of Indian, and Chinese nationalism, concerned with preventing the United States from succeeding to Great Britain's imperial rule.  The course examines new patterns of US-India and US-China relations in the post-cold war period.  This is primarily a lecture course, but the course web is a critical element of class work.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "284. (PSCI256, SAST584) International Relations of the United States and Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HSOC305, SAST585)", "num": "285", "description": "SM 285. (HSOC305, SAST585) Health and Society in South Asia. (C) Staff. \n\nThe countries of South Asia have large and diverse populations in need of public, preventative, and curative health services relevant to the health and disease problems of the region.  This course will consider the historic origins of health services in South Asia, beginning with a focus on health needs and health services development in the 19th century through the mid-20th century.  In a context influenced by politics, economics, and socio-cultural factors, biomedical health services and education emerged as the dominant health system.  Yet this system remains tied to foreign health models and contends with the socio-cultural competition of traditional medical systems. Through lectures, discussion, and assignments, this course will explore the historic and contemporary complexity of the health care systems in South Asian countries as they attempt to deliver health care to populations with wide disparities in income, education, health problems and needs.  Selected comparative experiences of Asian health care systems, such as Chinese, will be discussed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "285. (HSOC305, SAST585) Health and Society in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH289, RELS260)", "num": "288", "description": "288. (ANTH289, RELS260) Body, Power, Society in Early India. (M) Ali.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "288. (ANTH289, RELS260) Body, Power, Society in Early India. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HSOC226, STSC226)", "num": "289", "description": "The course will focus on the social history of the body, widely conceived, in early Indian society.  Doctrines of the body will be placed against the context of wider traditions of thinking about ethics and selfhood and viewed in both cultural and historical contexts.  Themes will include the evolution of religious doctrines and rituals, the history of emotions and interpersonal relations, the evolution of state and society, and urban and rural cultures. Specific topics treated will include theories of physiology, health, and illness; gesture and movement; sartorial codes, sumptuary regulations, and 'body culture'; gender and sexuality; and the representation of the body in art and literature.  In addition to contextual and thematic readings, the course will expose students to a wide variety of primary sources (translated from Sanskrit, Pali and Tamil),including religious and ritual texts courtly literature, art (painting, sculpture, material culture), as well as well as inscriptions and normative treatises. SM 289. (HSOC226, STSC226) Science, Medicine and Technology in South Asia. (M) Petrie. \n\nThis course examines the history of science, technology and medicine in the Indian subcontinent from ca.  1750 to the present.  The first half of the semester will focus on the period of British dominance, considering such topics as: the role of science, medicine and technology in colonial rule and anti-colonial nationalism; Western understandings of and impacts upon Indian environments; the relationship between Western and indigenous forms of knowledge.  The second half of the course will examine the post-colonial period, with a particular focus on development and environmental issues and the policies of the governments of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "289. (HSOC226, STSC226) Science, Medicine and Technology in South Asia. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ASAM209, SAST590)", "num": "290", "description": "290. (ASAM209, SAST590) South Asians in the United States. (B) Staff. \n\nThis course begins with a historical survey of South Asian immigration in the United States.  It continues with a broad look at cultural, social, and political issues which confront the South Asian American community today, issues such as citizenship and transnationality, minoritization, economic opportunity, cultural and religious maintenance and adaptation, changes in family structure and gender roles, and generational shifts.  It concludes with an examination of the emergence of a body of creative writings by South Asians in America as an expatriate Indian literature of exile and as American immigrant and ethnic literature.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "290. (ASAM209, SAST590) South Asians in the United States. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH281, ANTH581, HIST383, SAST594)", "num": "294", "description": "SM 294. (ANTH281, ANTH581, HIST383, SAST594) Language, Race, and Ethnicity in South Asia: History and the Politics of Culture. (C) Mitchell. \n\nHow has India maintained itself as a nation containing 1/6 of the world's population by recognizing 22 official languages and scores of mother tongues? Why have other South Asian countries broken into conflict over linguistic differences?  This course examines the shaping of ethnic, racial, and linguistic categories of identity in modern South Asia, and explores the socio-political movements that have emerged in conjunction with these categories.  Topics include colonial administrative practices such as the decennial censuses and the Linguistic Survey of India; the rise of regional linguistic movements; the relationships between language, ethnicity, and the writing of history in the context of ethnic conflicts in Sri Lanka; the Dravidian, Non-Brahmin, Adi-Dravida, and anti-Hindi movements in southern India; the creation of Pakistan and Bangladesh; and recent debates over the origins of the Aryans.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "294. (ANTH281, ANTH581, HIST383, SAST594) Language, Race, and Ethnicity in South Asia: History and the Politics of Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSCI511, SAST680)", "num": "380", "description": "380. (PSCI511, SAST680) Society & Politics in India. (C) Frankel. \n\nThis course analyzes the changing relations between social dominance and state power from the time of colonial rule. \n\nSpecial emphasis is placed on ways in which the historical-social context of India at Independence shaped the democratic institutions introduced, and reciprocally, how social hierarchy and preferences for group rights have been affected by egalitarian and liberal principles of governance.  Within this analytical framework, religion, caste, class and ethnicity are examined as process and as social formation leading to the emergence of new identities and conflicting ideas of political community associated with them.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "380. (PSCI511, SAST680) Society & Politics in India. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(HSOC412, SAST687)", "num": "387", "description": "387. (HSOC412, SAST687) Traditional Medicine in South Asia: Historic Orgins and Contemporary Use. (C) Sharma. \n\nIn South Asia, traditional medical systems (Ayurveda, Unani, and Siddha) have deep affiliation with the scientific, philosophical, religious, and cultural systems.  This course will examine the historic origins and socio-cultural dimensions of these systems.  Topics will include the encounter between traditional and Western medicine in the nineteenth century; twentieth century revival and professionalizing activities in the traditional systems; state a central government support for education, services, and research in traditional medicine; their role in the overall health care system; and their use by patients in urban and rural areas.  The world-wide interest in complementary and alternative medicine as it relates to the Indian medical systems will be considered.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "387. (HSOC412, SAST687) Traditional Medicine in South Asia: Historic Orgins and Contemporary Use. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(PSCI511)", "num": "528", "description": "SM 528. (PSCI511) Society & Politics in India. (M) Frankel. \n\nThis course analyzes the changing relations between social dominance and state power from the time of colonial rule.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "528. (PSCI511) Society & Politics in India. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST284)", "num": "584", "description": "584. (SAST284) International Relations of the United States and Asia. (C) Frankel. \n\nThis course is one of the first arising out of scholarship on cold war international history.  It draws on declassified government documents and other archival records to provide a window into the world-view of decision-makers who need to make national security policy based on incomplete information about ambiguous threats.  The materials reveal a great deal about the importance of divergent historical perspectives and strategic cultures in the foreign policy- making process.  The main focus of the course is on the intersection of the cold war and the rise of Asian nationalism. \n\nAt the core of the analysis is the clash between America's global strategy of military containment against the Soviet Union and the assertion of Indian, and Chinese nationalism, concerned with preventing the United States from succeeding to Great Britain's imperial rule.  The course examines new patterns of US-India and US-China relations in the post-cold war period.  This is primarily a lecture course, but the course web is a critical element of class work.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "584. (SAST284) International Relations of the United States and Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST285)", "num": "585", "description": "585. (SAST285) Health and Society in South Asia. (C) Staff. \n\nThe countries of South Asia have large and diverse populations in need of public, preventative, and curative health services relevant to the health and disease problems of the region.  This course will consider the historic origins of health services in South Asia, beginning with a focus on health needs and health services' development in the 19th century through the mid-20th century.  In a context influenced by politics, economics, and socio-cultural factors, biomedical health services and education emerged as the dominant health system.  Yet this system remains tied to foreign health models and contends with the socio-cultural competition of traditional medical systems.  Through lectures, discussion, and assignments, this course will explore the historic and contemporary complexity of the health care systems in South Asian countries as they attempt to deliver health care to populations with wide disparities in income, education, health problems and needs. Selected comparative experiences of Asian health care systems, such as Chinese, will be discussed.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "585. (SAST285) Health and Society in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST294)", "num": "594", "description": "SM 594. (SAST294) Language, Race, and Ethnicity in South Asia: History and the Politics of Culture. (C) Mitchell. \n\nHow has India maintained itself as a nation containing 1/6 of the world's population by recognizing 22 official languages and scores of mother tongues? Why have other South Asian countries broken into conflict over linguistic differences?  This course examines the shaping of ethnic, racial, and linguistic categories of identity in modern South Asia, and explores the socio-political movements that have emerged in conjunction with these categories.  Topics include colonial administrative practices such as the decennial censuses and the Linguistic Survey of India; the rise of regional linguistic movements; the relationships between language, ethnicity, and the writing of history in the context of ethnic conflicts in Lanka; the Dravidian, Non-Brahmin, Adi-Dravida, and anti-Hindi movements in southern India; the creation of Pakistan and Bangladesh; and recent debates over the origins of the Aryans.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "594. (SAST294) Language, Race, and Ethnicity in South Asia: History and the Politics of Culture. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PSCI511, SAST380)", "num": "680", "description": "680. (PSCI511, SAST380) Society & Politics in India. (C) Frankel. \n\nThis course analyzes the changing relations between social dominance and state power from the time of colonial rule. \n\nSpecial emphasis is placed on ways in which the historical-social context of India at Independence shaped the democratic institutions introduced, and reciprocally, how social hierarchy and preferences for group rights have been affected by egalitarian and liberal principles of governance.  Within this analytical framework, religion, caste, class and ethnicity are examined as process and as social formation leading to the emergence of new identities and conflicting ideas of political community associated with them.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "680. (PSCI511, SAST380) Society & Politics in India. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SAST387)", "num": "687", "description": "687. (SAST387) Traditional Medicine in South Asia: Historic Orgins and Contemporary Use. (C) Sharma. \n\nIn South Asia, traditional medical systems (Ayurveda, Unani, and Siddha) have deep affiliation with the scientific, philosophical, religious, and cultural systems.  This course will examine the historic origins and socio-cultural dimensions of these systems.  Topics will include the encounter between traditional and Western medicine in the nineteenth century; twentieth century revival and professionalizing activities in the traditional systems; state a central government support for education, services, and research in traditional medicine; their role in the overall health care system; and their use by patients in urban and rural areas.  The world-wide interest in complementary and alternative medicine as it relates to the Indian medical systems will be considered.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "687. (SAST387) Traditional Medicine in South Asia: Historic Orgins and Contemporary Use. (C)"}, null, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "403", "description": "403. Beginning Bengali. (E) Banerjee. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course introduces students to colloquial Bengali.  It gives equal emphasis to each of the four skills, reading, writing, listening, and speaking.  Language will be studied in the context of socio-cultural aspects of West Bengal and Bangladesh.  Besides lessons from the text, a major portion of the syllabus will be based on topics drawn from films, cultural events, festivals, food, and religion.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "403. Beginning Bengali. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "423", "description": "423. Intermediate Bengali. (E) Banerjee. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course develops the student's prior knowledge of Bengali.  An attempt is made to gear the syllabus to meet the specific needs of students.  The focus of the course is to develop the oral and aural skills of the learner as well as improve writing skills and reading strategies.  Emphasis is also laid on increasing the sociolinguistic and strategic competence of the learners so that they will be able to function in the target culture.  Besides discussions on various aspects of Bengali life, students read some short literary texts in the original Bengali version.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "423. Intermediate Bengali. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "443", "description": "443. Advanced Bengali II. (B) Staff. \n\nTopics may include Bengali Popular Culture.  This course aims to use as its content, different aspects of popular Bengali culture as they are represented in media (film, television, magazines, newspapers) and arts (fashion, local and regional art, music).  Students will be expected to develop their linguistic skills (description, narration, supporting opinion) and socio-cultural awareness while interacting with these varied types of texts. Students will be allowed to work on individual texts & topics (with the instructors permission) for their final project. \n\n Spring: Bengali Popular Culture- This course aims to use as its content, different aspects of popular Bengali culture as they are represented in media (film, television, magazines, newspapers) and arts (fashion, local and regional art, music).  Students will be expected to develop their linguistic skills (description, narration, supporting opinion) and socio-cultural awareness while interacting with these varied types of texts.  Students will be allowed to work on individual texts & topics (with the instructors permission) for their final project.  This is a one semester course.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "443. Advanced Bengali II. (B)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "402", "description": "402. Beginning Gujarati. (E) Suthar. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nDuring the first year of Gujarati, major emphasis is placed on acquiring phonetics, grammatical patterns, and basic vocabulary.  These goals are accomplished through guided drills and conversations accompanied by formal instruction on Gujarati grammar.  From the outset, students are also taught the Gujarati writing system, which is used for all materials.  By the end of the first year of instruction, student should be able to carry on coherent conversations on selected topics, read simple texts and compose short pieces in Gujarati.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "402. Beginning Gujarati. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "422", "description": "422. Intermediate Gujarati. (E) Suthar. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course is designed as a continuation of beginning Gujarati.  The course objectives are to expand the mastery of sentence patterns and augment vocabulary and its usage through intensive grammar and comprehension exercises.  A special emphasis will be placed on greater cultural awareness. Upon completion of this course students should be able to interact socially with added confidence and greater expressiveness.  Students should also experience a great improvement in their comprehension of spoken and written language.  During the second year of Gujarati, students are introduced to progressively more difficult reading selections, along with additional instructions in the formal grammar of the language.  To maintain and develop oral and aural command of the language, readings are discussed in Gujarati. To develop their writing abilities, students are also expected to compose short essays on their readings.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "422. Intermediate Gujarati. (E)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "400", "description": "400. Beginning Hindi. (E) Gambhir, S. This is a two-semester course. \n\nThe course aims at developing an interactive speaking ability on everyday topics.  At this stage there is less emphasis on developing reading and writing skills.  The target language is presented in its sociocultural context including body language.  For achieving a meaningful and operational control of the language, students acquire basic rules of the language and its use, and a basic vocabulary of about 1200 words.  In addition, students learn two scripts: Devanagari script for Hindi in Fall and Nastaliq script for Urdu in Spring.  Authentic and simulated video materials are used to bring the South Asian culture live to the classroom.  Class activities include watching videos, singing, role-playing, language games and group work.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "400. Beginning Hindi. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "420", "description": "420. Intermediate Hindi. (E) Gambhir, V. This is a two-semester course. \n\nIn Intermediate Hindi the student continues to develop the four language skills, with an emphasis on real-life situations- -through hearing and practicing conversation on everyday topics, reading a variety of authentic texts ranging from advertisements to short stories, watching segments of current films, and carrying out short research projects using Hindi sources. There is a strong emphasis on vocabulary development and on using contextually appropriate styles of spoken and written Hindi.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "420. Intermediate Hindi. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "430", "description": "430. Advanced Hindi. (A) Gahunia. \n\nAdvanced Hindi aims at systematically developing higher level linguistic functions and cultural nuances.  Students learn to describe, narrate and support opinions in informal and formal styles.  The objective of the course is to promote a meaningful interaction with written literature and with native speakers in a socially acceptable manner in a variety of simple and complicated situations.  A variety of authentic materials are used, such as short stories, plays, newspapers, magazines, videos, television and radio broadcasts, and interviews.  Every semester the course materials and foci vary depending on the needs and interests of students in the class.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "430. Advanced Hindi. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "460", "description": "460. Business Hindi. (C) Gambhir, V. \n\nThis course will advance students' bilingual and bicultural competence to enhance their knowledge and ability to work in the Indian business context. As part of the course the students will learn about the content and culture of Indian business as it operates nationally and internationally.  They will get exposed to issues relevant to conducting business in or with India and learn about diverse cultural nuances (such as rural-urban perspectives) that impact marketing strategies by analyzing Hindi advertisements.  Also, students will engage with the content and language through guest lectures, print and audio-video texts gathered from national and international media, such as VOA, BBC, and Business Standard.  By the end of the semester, students are expected to enhance their knowledge about Indian business, gain linguistic competence (lexical, socio-cultural and pragmatic) to increase their confidence and comfort level in business domains, and access culturally embedded viewpoints about local and global business issues.  In order to demonstrate the above, students will engage in projects that will require them to do research, conduct interviews and make presentations of their findings.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "460. Business Hindi. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "408", "description": "408. Beginning Malayalam. (E) Kurichi. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course is designed to develop skills in reading, writing, and speaking. It will focus on the alphabet, basic vocabulary, nouns (cases, gender and number), verbs and their basic tenses, numerals, rules of joining words, adjectives, adverbs, and sentence structure.  Guided conversation will be a part of every class.  Students will receive considerable training in speaking and writing their own sentences and paragraphs.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "408. Beginning Malayalam. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "428", "description": "428. Intermediate Malayalam. (E) Kurichi. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course is designed to further the language skills learned in Beginning Malayalam.  Direct and indirect speech, passive voice, postpositions, and rules of joining words, will be included.  Reading and discussion of texts from current Malayalam literature (essays, narration, short stories, and poems) will be a major portion of the course.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "428. Intermediate Malayalam. (E)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "404", "description": "404. Beginning Panjabi. (E) Gahunia. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course emphasizes speaking and reading skills in Punjabi.  Upon completion of this course, students should be able to interact meaningfully and in a socially acceptable manner in a variety of simple situations involving everyday conversational topics.  Further, students should be able to read and understand the main idea and most details of simple connected texts. This course will utilize authentic printed, audio, and video materials and will provide opportunities for natural communication both within and outside the classroom.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "404. Beginning Panjabi. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "424", "description": "424. Intermediate Panjabi. (E) Gahunia. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course is designed as a continuation of Beginning Punjabi, but can also be taken by anyone who can demonstrate a similar level in proficiency of the language.  The course objectives are to expand the mastery of sentence patterns and augment vocabulary and its usage through intensive grammar review and comprehension exercises.  A special emphasis will also be placed on greater cultural awareness.  Upon completion of this course students should be able to interact socially with added confidence and greater expressiveness. Students should also experience a great improvement in their comprehension of the spoken and written language.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "424. Intermediate Panjabi. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "434", "description": "434. Advanced Punjabi. (A) Gahunia. This course is offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThe objective of the course is to improve proficiency in speaking, listening, reading and writing.  This course addresses the individual needs of learners. The focus of the course will be to study the interpretation of written and oral materials on social, political and contemporary cultural topics from modern literature, television, internet, magazines, newspaper, music and film. Weekly written compositions and oral presentations will be assigned.  Grading will be based on this.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "434. Advanced Punjabi. (A)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "460", "description": "460. Sanskrit: 1st Year. (E) Patel. \n\nStudents will learn the entire Sanskrit grammar by the end of the first year. They will be able to read Sanskrit texts and compose Sanskrit sentences in addition to carrying out simple conversation.  During the year we will also read simple inscriptions and sections from texts like the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, the Bhagavad Gita, Pancatantra, and Yoga Sutra.  Throughout the semester, we will also discuss selected readings and visual materials that introduce students to the broad contours of Sanskrit culture.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "460. Sanskrit: 1st Year. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(G)", "crosslist": "", "num": "470", "description": "470. Sanskrit: 2nd Year. (G) Ali. Prerequisite(s): SKRT 460. \n\nThis course will lead students to consolidate their knowledge of Sanskrit grammar and increase their familiarity with Sanskrit literature of all kinds, including epic, literary, philosophical, and narrative genres of texts.  It will also introduce students to the study and reading of inscriptional materials.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given for first term without the second term.)", "title": "470. Sanskrit: 2nd Year. (G)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "406", "description": "406. Beginning Tamil. (E) Renganathan. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course introduces students to colloquial Tamil and formal written Tamil. A balance between production skills, viz. writing and speaking, and comprehension skills, viz. reading and listening, will be maintained throughout the course. \n\nReading materials will introduce students to customs and habits of the Tamil speakers in Tamil Nadu, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, and Singapore.  Lessons in the class will be based on a set of Tamil learning software made available at the MMETS Server.  This software will be customized to the needs of students.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "406. Beginning Tamil. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "426", "description": "426. Intermediate Tamil. (E) Renganathan. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course develops the skills obtained either from the Beginning Tamil course or from students' prior exposure to Tamil.  The emphasis will be on using the language in actual environments both in spoken medium and in written medium.  Multimedia materials such as audio and video facilities will be used extensively to provide students an exposure to the Tamil culture and customs. Besides improving their speech and writing, students will also be introduced gradually to Tamil literature, which has two thousand years of literary history.  The learning process in this course will be facilitated by appropriate software equipped with multimedia facilities.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "426. Intermediate Tamil. (E)"}, null, {"offercode": "(G)", "crosslist": "", "num": "409", "description": "409. Beginning Telugu. (G) Magier. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course introduces students to the basic Telugu language skills, with an emphasis on practice for listening comprehension, and speaking Telugu. Combined with exposure to Andhra culture, the classroom and online work in this course will enable interested students to pursue further language study in Telugu at the intermediate level, to carry out field research in Andhra Pradesh, or to prepare them to advanced work in Telugu Studies.  An introduction to Telugu like this will also be useful for students who just want to acquire basic Telugu language skills for learning a new language or being able to communicate with Telugu speaking family and friends or to enjoy Telugu music and films.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given for first term without the second term.)", "title": "409. Beginning Telugu. (G)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "429", "description": "429. Intermediate Telugu. (E) Magier. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis course is designed to expand the students' basic language skills in Telugu in order to allow them to function adequately in a Telugu-speaking environment, to immerse themselves in the rich Andhra culture, and to accomplish a more advanced competency in an interesting foreign language. This course is also aimed at students planning to conduct scholarly research in Telugu history, literature or society, or humanities or social science fieldwork in Telugu speaking areas.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "429. Intermediate Telugu. (E)"}, null, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "(NELC401)", "num": "401", "description": "401. (NELC401) Beginning Urdu. (E) Qureshi. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nThis is a systematic introduction to Urdu language and culture for beginners. the course aims at developing listening and comprehension and a real life interactive speaking ability in a variety of everyday topics.  The urdu script is introduced from the beginning.  The target language is presented in its total socio cultural context for achieving a meaningful and operational control of languages.  Students acquire basic rules for structural and socio - cultural appropriateness.  Students are expected to learn a vocabulary of about 1200 words during the semester. the final evaluation will be based on class participation, performance in quizzes and tests and completed assignments.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "401. (NELC401) Beginning Urdu. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "(NELC421)", "num": "421", "description": "421. (NELC421) Intermediate Urdu. (E) Qureshi. This is a two-semester course offered through the Penn Language Center. \n\nIn Intermediate Urdu, the curriculum focuses on the development of reading, listening and speaking skills.  Although there are short assignments for writing in Urdu, the emphasis on developing writing as a skill is not part of the course objectives.  Authentic texts in the three skills include conversations, short stories, current events, articles, films and plays. There is a continuous emphasis on vocabulary development and students are expected to add about five hundred new words to their active vocabulary per semester.  The rules of grammar for structural accuracy and socialcultural propriety are parts of the regular curriculum.  Class activities include students' short presentations, role-plays, singing and conversations.  There are weekly assignments and quizzes, a mid-term and a final examination.  The final evaluation will rest on class participation, performance in quizzes and tests, and completed assignments.  This is a two- semester course.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "421. (NELC421) Intermediate Urdu. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(NELC431)", "num": "431", "description": "431. (NELC431) Advanced Urdu. (A) Qureshi.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "431. (NELC431) Advanced Urdu. (A)"}, null, {"offercode": "(G)", "crosslist": "(PERS111, PERS511)", "num": "405", "description": "405. (PERS111, PERS511) Beginning Pashtu. (G) Staff. Prerequisite(s): For advanced students . Offered through Penn Language Center.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given for first term without the second term.)", "title": "405. (PERS111, PERS511) Beginning Pashtu. (G)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "407", "description": "407. Beginning Kannada. (E) Rajagopalan. Offered through Penn Language Center.  This is a two-semester course.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "407. Beginning Kannada. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "410", "description": "410. Beginning Marathi. (E) Ranade. Offered through Penn Language Center.  This is a two-semester course. \n\nThe first year course in Marathi begins with learning the Devnagari script which is common for other important languages like Hindi and Nepali.  With proper emphasis on grammar, vocabulary, and phonetics, the syllabus will see the student becoming able to speak conversational Marathi, read Marathi data from the Internet, and compose simple short essays on selected topics.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "410. Beginning Marathi. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "411", "description": "411. Intermediate Marathi. (E) Ranade. Offered through Penn Language Center.  This is a two-semester course.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "411. Intermediate Marathi. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(G)", "crosslist": "(PERS113)", "num": "425", "description": "425. (PERS113) Intermediate Pashtu. (G) Staff. Offered through Penn Language Center.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given for first term without the second term.)", "title": "425. (PERS113) Intermediate Pashtu. (G)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "", "num": "427", "description": "427. Intermediate Kannada. (E) Rajagopalan. Offered through Penn Language Center.  This is a two-semester course.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "427. Intermediate Kannada. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(G)", "crosslist": "(PERS115, PERS515)", "num": "435", "description": "435. (PERS115, PERS515) Advanced Pashtu: Pop Romances. (G) Staff. Offered through Penn Language Center.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given for first term without the second term.)", "title": "435. (PERS115, PERS515) Advanced Pashtu: Pop Romances. (G)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(PERS116, PERS516)", "num": "445", "description": "445. (PERS116, PERS516) Advanced Pashtu Prose Literature. (C) Staff. Offered through Penn Language Center.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "445. (PERS116, PERS516) Advanced Pashtu Prose Literature. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "447", "description": "447. Advanced Kannada: Selected Topics. (C) Rajagopalan.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "447. Advanced Kannada: Selected Topics. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "494", "description": "494. Early Marathi. (C) Staff. Offered through Penn Language Center.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "494. Early Marathi. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "199", "description": "199. Independent Study. (C) Staff. \n\nDirected Study for Undergraduates\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "199. Independent Study. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "299", "description": "299. Independent Study. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "299. Independent Study. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "999", "description": "999. Independent Study. (C) Staff. \n\nDirected Study for Graduates\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "999. Independent Study. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "300", "description": "300. Directed Study. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course is required for all senior honors majors, and open to senior majors.  Honors majors must, in addition, prepare a research paper.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "300. Directed Study. (C)"}, null, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "700", "description": "SM 700. Proseminar in South Asia: History & Society. (M) Ali & Viswanath. \n\nThis course provides an overview of select but formative themes in the historiography and anthropology of South Asia. \n\nStudents will read key texts and debates that have shaped the study of South Asian history and society. Themes may vary, but the syllabus will focus on both analysis and interpretation as well as the treatment of sources and data.  The course will emphasize the connection of the study of South Asia to wider developments in historiography and social science, and will include select readings beyond the regional focus on South Asia.  The overall goal of the course will be to familiarize students with some of the most influential intellectual formations in the field and to provide a context for the development of their own research problems.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "700. Proseminar in South Asia: History & Society. (M)"}, null, {"offercode": "(D)", "crosslist": "", "num": "710", "description": "SM 710. Seminar Classical Indian Studies. (D) Staff. Prerequisite(s): Two years of Sanskrit is required.\n\n(Two terms. Student may enter either term. Credit is given for either term.)", "title": "710. Seminar Classical Indian Studies. (D)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ARTH711)", "num": "711", "description": "SM 711. (ARTH711) Seminar in Indian Art. (C) Meister. \n\nResearch seminar.  Topics change.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "711. (ARTH711) Seminar in Indian Art. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "712", "description": "SM 712. Seminar in Indian Philosophy. (C) Staff.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "712. Seminar in Indian Philosophy. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "760", "description": "SM 760. Seminar in Modern South Asian History. (C) Staff. \n\nCentered on major recent work and on writing by class participants, this seminar is primarily for Ph.D candidates doing research on South Asia.  Each week we read the equivalent of one book and meet to discuss its contribution to South Asian historiography.  Each participant will submit a major piece of writing for discussion and will assign auxiliary readings to be read with their own work for one class meeting.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "760. Seminar in Modern South Asian History. (C) "}]