[null, null, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "500", "description": "500. Introduction to Networks and Protocols. (A) Prerequisite(s): Undergraduate probability and analysis. \n\nCourse open to Juniors, Seniors and Graduate Students in SEAS and Wharton.  All others need permission of the instructor. Students who have taken ESE 404 may not take TCOM 500. \n\nThis is an introductory course on packet networks, protocols and technologies, with a particular emphasis on IP based networks such as the Internet.  The course introduces the various design and implementation choices that are behind the development of modern networks, and emphasizes basic analytical understanding in motivating those choices.  Topics are covered in a mostly \"bottom-up\" approach, starting with a brief review of physical layer issues such as digital transmission, compression and information theory, error correction and error recovery strategies.  This is then followed by a discussion on how to move from bits to packets and various issues associated with successfully transmitting packets.  The course then undergoes a brief digression aimed at exposing students to basic modeling tools useful in the analysis of communications systems, and then proceeds to explore approaches used to allow multiple users to share local communication resources, e.g., multiple access control (MAC) strategies and local area networks.  Network layer solutions (IP addressing, naming, and routing) that scale beyond local resources are covered next, before exploring end- to-end mechanisms such as TCP.  Finally, the building blocks needed to offer advanced functionality such as quality- of-service and network security are examined.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "500. Introduction to Networks and Protocols. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ESE 501)", "num": "501", "description": "501. (ESE 501) Networking - Theory and Fundamentals. (B) Prerequisite(s): ESE 530 or STAT 530 or equivalent. \n\nNetworks constitute an important component of modern technology and society. Networks have traditionally dominated communication technology in form of communication networks, distribution of energy in form of power grid networks, and have more recently emerged as a tool for social connectivity in form of social networks.  In this course, we will study mathematical techniques that are key to the design and analysis of different kinds of networks. \n\nFirst, we will investigate techniques for modeling evolution of networks.  Specifically, we will consider random graphs (all or none connectivity, size of components, diameters under random connectivity), small world problem, network formation and the role of topology in the evolution of networks.  Next, we will investigate different kinds of stochastic processes that model the flow of information in networks.  Specifically, we will develop the theory of markov processes, renewal processes, and basic queueing, diffusion models, epidemics and rumor spreading in networks.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "501. (ESE 501) Networking - Theory and Fundamentals. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "502", "description": "502. Advanced Networking Protocols. (B) Prerequisite(s): TCOM 500 or equivalent. \n\nThe course delves into the details of the many protocols whose combined operation is behind the Internet.  It starts with reviewing issues associated with naming and addressing, and in particular solutions that work at the Internet scale. \n\nThis is followed by an in-depth review of the Internet's \"control plane,\" namely the different routing protocols that govern packet forwarding decisions, including unicast (RIP2, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, etc.) and multicast (DVMRP, CBT, PIM, etc.) routing protocols.  The challenges associated with implementing efficient packet forwarding decisions are then discussed and illustrated through several representative techniques and algorithms.  Next, the course introduces technologies that implement advanced functionality over IP networks, including signaling protocols, e.g., RSVP, used to request resources from the network, and protocols such as MPLS and MP-BGP that enable the efficient deployment of virtual private networks and traffic engineering solutions.  If time permits, topics related to service classes and traffic management may also be covered.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "502. Advanced Networking Protocols. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ESE 509)", "num": "503", "description": "503. (ESE 509) Waves, Fibers and Antennas for Telecommunications. (A) Faculty. \n\nThis course is designed to provide an understanding of the physcial aspects of telecommunications systems.  This includes an understanding of waves and wave propagation, basic optics, the operation of optical fibers and fiber communication systems, an introduction to optical networks, free-space optical communications, and an understanding of simple antennas and arrays and their use in wireless communications.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "503. (ESE 509) Waves, Fibers and Antennas for Telecommunications. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "510", "description": "510. Wireless Networking. (B) Prerequisite(s): TCOM 500 or TCOM 512. \n\nThis course provides a basic introduction to wireless networking.  The focus is on layers 2 and 3 of the OSI reference model, design, performance analysis and protocols.  The topics covered include: an introduction to wireless networking, digital cellular, next generation PCS, wireless LANs, wireless ATM, mobile IP.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "510. Wireless Networking. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ESE 575)", "num": "511", "description": "511. (ESE 575) Wireless Systems. (A) Prerequisite(s): Undergraduate linear systems and elementary probability theory. \n\nSystem/Network Design, cellular concepts, resource management, radio management, radio channel propagation fundamentals, modulation, fading countermeasure, diversity, coding, spread spectrum, multiple access techniques.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "511. (ESE 575) Wireless Systems. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(CIS 553)", "num": "512", "description": "512. (CIS 553) Application and Transport Protocols. (C) Prerequisite(s): TCOM 370 (prerequisite) or TCOM 500 (can be corequisite), and sufficient programming knowledge to edit, write, and debug programs in C, and basic undergraduate mathematical background including elementary probability. \n\nThis course covers the design, analysis, and implementation of application- and transport-level protocols.  We teach basic techniques of framing, error recovery, reliable delivery, flow control, adaptation to congestion, presentation (and representation) of data, authentication and security, as applied to conversational, transactional, and dissemination- oriented transport and application level protocols.  In addition to hands-on experience designing and implementing network protocols in C using the BSD socket interface, we also teach elementary modeling (through both simulation and analytic models) and measurement of network protocols.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "512. (CIS 553) Application and Transport Protocols. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "514", "description": "514. Web Technologies, Architecture and Integration. (C) Prerequisite(s): TCOM 500 and knowledge of object oriented programming (Java preferred). \n\nThis course introduces the main concepts of Web technologies with special emphasis on modern architecture and integration issues.  The topics continually evolve as new Web technologies and protocols emerge.  The course starts with an overview of key Web software technologies (Web clients, Web proxies, Web servers, Web gateways) and a discussion of HTTP protocol design and its interaction with TCP/IP.  The second part of the course concentrates on Semantic Web, XML and its variants, Semantic Web 2.0, Web Services, and Next Generation Web.  This part of the course emphasizes the emergine technologies needed in web engineering projects.  The course concludes with a focus on Web-based architecture and integration issues.  The emphasis of this part is on emerging approaches to architect Web applications by using Services Oriented Architecture (SOA).  Discussion also include real-timbusiness activity monitoring, Web traffic measurements, Web caching, multimediaover Web, wireless Web, Web security, and Web mining.  The course stresses, through examples and case studies, the role of the most recent Web technologie protocols, and standards and their applications in the telecom indusdtry. Stud are given opportunities to work with various Web tools, evaluate architecturalconfigurations, and investigate special areas of interest to\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "514. Web Technologies, Architecture and Integration. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "515", "description": "515. Optical Networking. (B) Prerequisite(s): Requires undergraduate-level knowledge of complex variables, vector calculus and random processes. \n\nThis graduate level course explores several important topics related to the analysis and design of optical transport networks.  Topics covered include the propagation of signals in optical fiber, optical components, signal rates and formats, transmission engineering, time-division multiplexing (TDM), wavelength division multiplexing (WDM), layered network architectures, virtual topology design, network survivability and network management.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "515. Optical Networking. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CIS 551)", "num": "551", "description": "551. (CIS 551) Computer and Network Security. (B) \n\nThis is an introduction to topics in the security of computer systems and communication on networks of computers. \n\nThe course covers four major areas: fundamentals of cryptography, security for communication protocols, security for operating systems and mobile programs, and security for electronic commerce.  Sample specific topics include: passwords and offline attacks, DES, RSA, DSA, SHA, SSL, CBC, IPSec, SET, DDos attacks, biometric authentication, PKI smart cards, S/MIME, privacy on the Web, viruses, security models, wireless security, and sandboxing.  Students will be expected to display knowledge of both theory and practice through written examinations and programming assignments.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "551. (CIS 551) Computer and Network Security. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "601", "description": "601. Advanced Networking Modeling and Analysis. (C) \n\nTraffic management and call admission: traffic characterization traffic shaping, admission control, statistical multiplexing, effective bandwidth. Scheduling: fair queuing, rate-controlled service disciplines.  Buffer management: pushout, threshold, random early detection, sharing mechanisms (complete partitioning, complete sharing, hybrids), coupling buffer management and scheduling.  Markov decision process and application in resource allocation (memory, badwidth allocation).  Switching: input queuing, output queuing, shared memory, combined input/output queuing. \n\nMaximum throughout in input queued switches, emulating output queuing with input queuing via speedup.  Building larger switches: CIOS networks, banyan netowrks, etc.  TCP modeling.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "601. Advanced Networking Modeling and Analysis. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "670", "description": "SM 670. Telecommunications Seminar. (A) Prerequisite(s): TCOM 500 or permission of the instructor. Undergraduates require instructor permission. \n\nThis discussion-oriented seminar covers topics ranging from the study of residential broadband delivery architectures to the economic, legal and regulatory issues affecting the design and deployment of converged networks. Areas covered in the past include fiber to the home/node (FTTH/FTTN) architecture, IPTV deployment, IPv6 migration, the design and impact of P2P, quality of service, privacy, global cellular evolution, how different laws are shaping the internet, and the impact of regulation on telecommunication architecture in general.  Students will be asked to critically evluate published papers and discuss them in class, as well as to pick toics for individual research.  Guest speakers from industry will be invited to present real-world views of the material.  Grading is based on class preparation, paper reviews and presentation/paper on selected topics.  Papers and research topics covered in the previous class are available on line at www.seas.upenn.edu/~tcom670/papers.html\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "670. Telecommunications Seminar. (A)"}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "899", "description": "899. Independent Study.", "title": "899. Independent Study."}, {"offercode": "", "crosslist": "", "num": "990", "description": "990. Masters Thesis.", "title": "990. Masters Thesis."}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "999", "description": "999. Master Thesis Research. (C)\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "999. Master Thesis Research. (C) "}]