[null, null, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(AFRC041, SOCI041)", "num": "010", "description": "SM 010. (AFRC041, SOCI041) Homelessness and Urban Inequality. (A) Culhane. \n\nThis freshman seminar examines the homelessness problem from a variety of scientific and policy perspectives. \n\nContemporary homelessness differs significantly from related conditions of destitute poverty during other eras of our nation's history.  Advocates, researchers and policymakers have all played key roles in defining the current problem, measuring its prevalence, and designing interventions to reduce it.  The first section of this course examines the definitional and measurement issues, and how they affect our understanding of the scale and composition of the problem.  Explanations for homelessness have also been varied, and the second part of the course focuses on examining the merits of some of those explanations, and in particular, the role of the affordable housing crisis.  The third section of the course focuses on the dynamics of homelessness, combining evidence from ethnographic studies of how people become homeless and experience homelessness, with quantitative research on the patterns of entry and exit from the condition. The final section of the course turns to the approaches taken by policymakers and advocates to address the problem, and considers the efficacy and quandaries associated with various policy strategies.  The course concludes by contemplating the future of homelessness research and public policy.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "010. (AFRC041, SOCI041) Homelessness and Urban Inequality. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "", "num": "011", "description": "SM 011. Crime and Punishment. (M) Schneider. Previously URBS 110. \n\nHow have definitions of crime and forms of punishment changed over time?  What have been the uses and legacy of extra-legal violence?  How have the forms of crime and punishment reflected the structure of American society?  Using both historical and contemporary texts, this freshman seminar will explore these and other questions and in the process analyze the development of juvenile justice, the organization of corrections, the application of the death penalty, and the rise of the drug economy.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "011. Crime and Punishment. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "012", "description": "SM 012. The History and Politics of Space. (B) Schneider. \n\nHow do we understand the places in which we live?  How do we \"read\" a city? What is the relationship between workplace and home, downtown and suburb, inner city and gated communities, department store and mall, row house and ranch house?  How are our lives defined by place, and how do we function as both the producers and products of place?  The city is a social and a spatial system, and its organization both reflects and reproduces social categories of race, class, and gender.  The current city is also the product of past decisions about where to locate communities and how to allocate resources. Through reading sociological, historical, theoretical, and primary texts, through studying maps and photographs, and through your ethnographic explorations, we will explore the presence of the past in the city around us, the evolution of different kinds of urban and suburban places, and the encoding of wealth and power as well as inequality and poverty in the urban landscape.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "012. The History and Politics of Space. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(HIST209)", "num": "103", "description": "SM 103. (HIST209) Industrial Metropolis. (A) Vitiello. \n\nAlthough most U.S. cities are no longer thought of as \"industrial cities,\" metropolitan areas today are all products of industrial economies, technologies, and social systems.  This course explores the ways in which industrialization and deindustrialization have shaped North American cities over the past two centuries.  Major themes include economic geography, ecology, labor and production, suburbanization, outsourcing, energy, and cities' place in the world economy.  The class will take regular walking tours of Philadelphia neighborhoods.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "103. (HIST209) Industrial Metropolis. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(HIST153)", "num": "104", "description": "104. (HIST153) Urban Crisis: American Cities Since World War II. (B) Society Sector. All classes. Stern; Katz. \n\nThe course traces the economic, social, and political history of American cities after World War II.  It focuses on how the economic problems of the industrial city were compounded by the racial conflicts of the 1950s and 1960s and the fiscal crises of the 1970s.  The last part of the course examines the forces that led to the revitalization of cities in recent years.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "104. (HIST153) Urban Crisis: American Cities Since World War II. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC011, SOCI011)", "num": "112", "description": "SM 112. (AFRC011, SOCI011) Urban Sociology. (M) Staff. \n\nThis course is a comprehensive introduction to the sociological study of urban areas.  This includes more general topics as the rise of cities and theories urbanism, as well as more specific areas of inquiry, including American urbanism, segregation, urban poverty, suburbanization and sprawl, neighborhoods and crime, and immigrant ghettos.  The course will also devote significant attention to globalization and the process of urbanization in less developed counties.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "112. (AFRC011, SOCI011) Urban Sociology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(NELC103)", "num": "121", "description": "121. (NELC103) The Origin & Culture of Cities. (A) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Zettler. Previously URBS 101. \n\nThe UN estimates that 2.9 of the world's 6.1 billion people live in cities and that this percentage is rapidly increasing in many parts of the world.  This course examines urban life and urban problems by providing anthropological perspectives on this distinctive form of human association and land use. First we will examine the \"origin\" of cities, focusing on several of the places where cities first developed, including Mesopotamia and the Valley of Mexico.  We will then investigate the internal structure of non-industrial cities by looking at case studies from around the world and from connections between the cities of the past and the city in which we live and work today.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "121. (NELC103) The Origin & Culture of Cities. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH107, SAST002)", "num": "122", "description": "122. (ANTH107, SAST002) The City in South Asia. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Cunha. \n\nThis course surveys important themes and methods in the study of South Asia by focusing on one or more South Asian cities, such as Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Lahore, Lucknow, Banaras, Kathmandu, Lhasa, Dhaka, etc.  Topics to be covered include urban planning, globalization, trade, labor, development, artistic production, politics, cultural exchange, and so on.  Students draw literary and scholarly studies, investigating films, memoirs, ethnographies, histories, and other sources to understand the life of one or more major metropolitan centers.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "122. (ANTH107, SAST002) The City in South Asia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(AFRC136, PSCI136)", "num": "136", "description": "L/R 136. (AFRC136, PSCI136) Urban Politics in the United States. (B) Society Sector. All classes. Reed. \n\nThis course explores the political character of contemporary urban American life.  It seeks to familiarize students with the structural and ideological factors (e.g., dynamics of political economy, race, ethnicity, pluralism and gender) that constrain the policy context and define the urban environment as a terrain for commingling, competition, and conflict over uses of space.  It makes considerable use of case studies to throw into relief the complex and sometimes subtle processes that shape urban life.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "136. (AFRC136, PSCI136) Urban Politics in the United States. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(PSCI139)", "num": "137", "description": "SM 137. (PSCI139) Politics of Poverty and Development. (M) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. \n\nThis academically based community service seminar will explore the ideas and theories, alliances and opposition that have shaped policy and organizing efforts addressed to the problems associated with urban poverty in the United States. \n\nThere will be a special focus on the issues of increasing inequality, education, low wage work, health and nutrition, welfare reform and social security.  Students will evaluate contemporary policy debates and programs in the light of selected case studies, readings, and their own experience working with community groups, institutions, and federal programs in West Philadelphia.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "137. (PSCI139) Politics of Poverty and Development. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH139, NELC182)", "num": "139", "description": "139. (ANTH139, NELC182) Ancient Civilizations of the World. (M) History & Tradition Sector. All classes. Zettler. \n\nThe archaeology of the complex societies of the Old and New Worlds from the end of the paleolithic up to and including the earliest civilizations.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "139. (ANTH139, NELC182) Ancient Civilizations of the World. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(AFRC006, ASAM006, SOCI006)", "num": "160", "description": "L/R 160. (AFRC006, ASAM006, SOCI006) Race & Ethnic Relations. (C) Charles, Kao, Zuberi. Previously URBS 214. \n\nThe course will examine how social networks, neighborhood context, culture, and notions of race affect inequality and ethnic relations.  The course reviews the studies of ethnic entrepreneurship, urban segregation, labor force participation, and assimilation processes.  The course emphasizes how inequality affects ethnic relations as well as the economic and social integration of different groups in society.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "160. (AFRC006, ASAM006, SOCI006) Race & Ethnic Relations. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(AFRC078)", "num": "178", "description": "SM 178. (AFRC078) Urban-University Community Relations: Faculty-Student Collaborative Action Seminar. (C) Harkavy. previously URBS 078; Benjamin Franklin Seminar. \n\nOne of the seminar's aims is to help students develop their capacity to solve strategic, real-world problems by working collaboratively in the classroom and in the West Philadelphia community.  Students work as members of research teams to help solve universal problems (e.g., poverty, poor schooling, inadequate health care, etc.) as they are manifested in Penn's local geographic community of West Philadelphia.  The seminar currently focuses on improving education, specifically college and career readiness and pathways. Specifically, students focus their problem-solving research at Sayre High School in West Philadelphia, which functions as the real-world site for the seminar's activities. \n\nStudents are typically engaged in academically based service-learning at the Sayre School, primarily on Mondays from 3 to 5.  Other arrangements can be made at the school if needed.  Another goal of the seminar is to help students develop proposals as to how a Penn undergraduate education might better empower students to produce, rather than simply \"consume,\" societally useful knowledge, as well as function as life-long societally useful citizens.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "178. (AFRC078) Urban-University Community Relations: Faculty-Student Collaborative Action Seminar. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "", "num": "200", "description": "SM 200. Urban Research Methods. (C) Goldstein; Stern. Fulfills Quantitative Data Analysis Requirement. \n\nThis course will examine different ways of undertaking urban research.  The goal will be to link substantive research questions to appropriate research methods.  Micro-computer based quantitative methods, demographic techniques, and ethnographic approaches will be the primary foci of the course.  In addition to classroom assignments, students will have the opportunity to undertake their own research involving micro-based statistical analysis of data files which address relevant and timely public policy issues.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "200. Urban Research Methods. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(EDUC202)", "num": "202", "description": "SM 202. (EDUC202) Urban Education. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course is an introduction to many of the key issues confronting urban public schools in America.  We will examine some of the historical, social, and cultural contexts of urban education, as well as look at issues and events directly affecting the Philadelphia public schools.  This class will enable students to gain a multifaceted understanding of urban education through the integration of direct observation and participation in Philadelphia public schools with class readings and discussions.  We will also examine and critique recent reforms and policies, which have been designed to remedy the urban public school \"crisis.\" This course will enable students to gain a critical framework for perceiving urban education as they develop a sensitive understanding of the complex issues confronting urban schools.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "202. (EDUC202) Urban Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "203", "description": "SM 203. Introduction to City Planning: Planning Urban Spaces. (L) Gorostiza. \n\nThis course will provide a general introduction to the concepts and practice of city planning.  Topics to be discussed include: the process and nature of planning - theories, methods and roles as manifested in practice; history and trends in city planning; functional planning practice; planning within constraints--a field project; planning in the international arena; present crisis in planning.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "203. Introduction to City Planning: Planning Urban Spaces. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "204", "description": "204. Urban Law. (A) Keene. \n\nThis course will focus on selected aspects of urban law that are particularly relevant to areas of high population density. \n\nAfter an introduction to the American judicial system it will examine the governance of urban areas (state and local government law) and the management of urban growth (land use controls and other techniques for regulating new development).\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "204. Urban Law. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "205", "description": "SM 205. Introduction to Environmental Design: People and Design. (B) Berman. \n\nThe built environment of a city is more than a mere backdrop; the design can affect people's experiences. \n\nEnvironmental design focuses on the relationship between people and the built environment.  It also looks at how the built environment interacts with the natural one.  This course will allow students to gain a deeper understanding of how people create, perceive, and use the designed environment.  We'll approach these concepts by analyzing design at a variety of scales, from products to interior design to architecture.  Finally, using that knowledge, we'll conclude by analyzing urban spaces of the city.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "205. Introduction to Environmental Design: People and Design. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CPLN672, URBS506)", "num": "206", "description": "SM 206. (CPLN672, URBS506) Public Environment of Cities: An Introduction to the Urban Landscape. (B) Nairn. \n\nThe Public Environment of Cities explores urbanism - the study of the environmental, political, economic, socio- cultural, historical, and aesthetic conditions affecting urban life and culture.  At the heart of urbanism is our public environment - the parks, squares, and sidewalks in and upon which our public life is played out.  The course will explore the city through the examination of three broad themes: Democracy, Diversity, and Design.  We examine in detail how contemporary issues affect our perceptions, use, and inhabitation of the public environment and how the open spaces of the city provide frameworks for the daily social life and commerce as well as the important ceremonies, celebrations, and festivities of its inhabitants.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "206. (CPLN672, URBS506) Public Environment of Cities: An Introduction to the Urban Landscape. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(HIST210)", "num": "210", "description": "SM 210. (HIST210) The City. (B) Humanities & Social Science Sector. Class of 2010 & beyond. Staff. Also fulfills General Requirement in Society for Class of 2009 and prior. \n\nThis course is an introduction to major forces that shape urban life in the United States from the eighteenth century to the present, with a focus on Philadelphia.  Through weekly assignments and discussions, students will examine the physical formation and historical development of cities and learn to \"read\" the sociological and geographic organization of the contemporary city.  Prominent themes include urban growth, decline, and restructuring; the ecological bases of urban life; race, class, and gender relations in urban space; and the formation and re-formation of neighborhoods, downtowns, and suburbs.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "210. (HIST210) The City. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(COML110, HIST246, THAR110)", "num": "212", "description": "212. (COML110, HIST246, THAR110) Theatre, History, Culture I: Classical Athens to Elizabethan London. (M) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Schlatter. \n\nThis course will explore the forms of public performance - most specifically theatre - as they emerge from and give dramatic shape to the dynamic life of communal, civic and social bodies, from their anthropological origins in ritual and religious ceremonies, to the rise of great urban centers, to the closing of the theaters in London in 1642.  This course will focus on the development of theatre practice in both Western and non-Western cultures intersects with the history of cities, the rise of market economies, and the emerging forces of national identity.  In addition to examining the history of performance practices, theatre architecture, scenic conventions, and acting methods, this course will investigate, where appropriate, social and political history, the arts, civic ceremonies and the dramaturgic structures of urban living.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "212. (COML110, HIST246, THAR110) Theatre, History, Culture I: Classical Athens to Elizabethan London. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HIST214)", "num": "220", "description": "SM 220. (HIST214) Current Topics in Urban Studies. (M) Staff. \n\nTopics vary; see department for current course description.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "220. (HIST214) Current Topics in Urban Studies. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(FNAR226, FNAR626)", "num": "226", "description": "SM 226. (FNAR226, FNAR626) The Photography of Urban Space. (A) Staff. Prerequisite(s): FNAR 271 or permission of the instructor. \n\nThis is a non-studio course in the photography of buildings, streetscapes, and cities.  It is designed for photographers interested in the built environment as subject matter, as well as for architecture and planning students.  We will hone practical skills in perspective control, lighting, and photographic interpretation of space, so that photographers, architects, and planners can better photograph precedents and their own projects, and better evaluate the use of professional architectural photography for promotion and education.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "226. (FNAR226, FNAR626) The Photography of Urban Space. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ARTH305, CINE305)", "num": "235", "description": "SM 235. (ARTH305, CINE305) Film and the City. (M) Charney. \n\nRomance and sex.  Paranoia and violence.  Energy and fun.  Cynicism and danger.  Every emotion, every social upheaval, every class, racial, and sexual struggle of three centuries has been channeled, by now, through the city on film.  In fact, cities and cinema were partners from the start.  Early films first emerged from 19th century Paris and other world capitals (New York, Berlin, Paris, Moscow), which figured prominently in cinema's early years. Since then, cities have been regularly at the center of major films and film movements - gangster movies in the 1930s; film noir in the 1940s; MGM musicals in the 1950s; French New Wave in the 1960s; Woody Allen and Martin Scorsese in the 1970s; Stephen Frears, Hanif Kureishi, Spike Lee, and Mike Leigh in the 1980s; and DIY, indie, and \"mumblecore\" movements today. \n\n This special, one-time-only course, offered as part of Penn's Arts & The City Year, will examine both cities and cinema, including a wide range of movies, from all different countries and periods; theories and histories of urban planning and urban experience (from the Frankfurt School to Richard Florida) and film culture, resources, and events in Philadelphia, New York, and elsewhere. \n\n All students will make a short film in Philadelphia as a final class project. Other required work will include screenings, readings, class participation, and writing assignments.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "235. (ARTH305, CINE305) Film and the City. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH236, NELC241)", "num": "236", "description": "236. (ANTH236, NELC241) Mesopotamia: Heartland of Cities and Empires. (M) Zettler. \n\nThis course surveys the cultural traditions of ancient Mesopotamia, the land between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, a region commonly dubbed \"cradle of civilization\" or \"heartland of cities,\" from an archaeological perspective. It will investigate the emergence of sedentism and agriculture; early villages and increasingly complex Neolithic and Chalcolithic cultures; the evolution of urban, literate societies in the late 4th millennium; the city-states and incipient supra-regional polities of the third and second millennium; the gradual emergence of the Assyrian and Babylonian \"world empires,\" well-known from historical books of the Bible, in the first millennium; and the cultural mix of Mesopotamia under the successive domination of Greeks, Persians and Arabs.  The course seeks to foster an appreciation of the rich cultural heritage of ancient Mesopotamia, an understanding of cultural continuities in the Middle East and a sense of the ancient Near Eastern underpinnings of western civilization.  No Prerequisite.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "236. (ANTH236, NELC241) Mesopotamia: Heartland of Cities and Empires. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(EDUC240)", "num": "240", "description": "240. (EDUC240) Education in American Culture. (A) Staff. \n\nThis course explores the relationships between forms of cultural production and transmission (schooling, family and community socialization, peer group subcultures and media representations) and relations of inequality in American society.  Working with a broad definition of \"education\" as varied forms of social learning, we will concentrate particularly on the cultural processes that produce as well as potentially transform class, race, ethnic and gender differences and identities.  From this vantage point, we will then consider the role that schools can and/or should play in challenging inequalities in America.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "240. (EDUC240) Education in American Culture. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(COML254, GRMN244)", "num": "244", "description": "L/R 244. (COML254, GRMN244) Metropolis: Culture of the City. (M) Arts & Letters Sector. All Classes. Macleod. All lectures and readings in English. \n\nAn exploration of modern discourses on and of the city.  Topics include: the city as site of avant-garde experimentation; technology and culture; the city as embodiment of social order and disorder; traffic and speed; ways of seeing the city; the crowd; city figures such as the detective, the criminal, the flaneur, the dandy; film as the new medium of the city.  Special emphasis on Berlin.  Readings by Dickens, Poe, Baudelaire, Rilke, Doeblin, Marx, Engels, Benjamin, Kracauer, among others.  Films include Fritz Lang's Metropolis and Tom Tykwer's Run Lola Run.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "244. (COML254, GRMN244) Metropolis: Culture of the City. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ANTH253, EDUC245)", "num": "245", "description": "SM 245. (ANTH253, EDUC245) Topics in Urban Education. (M) Staff. \n\nTopics vary; contact department for current course offering\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "245. (ANTH253, EDUC245) Topics in Urban Education. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "250", "description": "SM 250. Urban Public Policy: Contemporary Philadelphia: A Case Study. (B) Hershberg. \n\nAn introduction to a broad range of substantive policy areas affecting the city and an exploration into the complexities of policy formulation and implementation in a large and pluralistic metropolitan setting.  The course subtitle, \"Contemporary Philadelphia: A Case Study,\" describes our approach.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "250. Urban Public Policy: Contemporary Philadelphia: A Case Study. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "252", "description": "SM 252. Urban Journalism. (B) Rubin. \n\nThis course will examine the state of urban journalism today with special emphasis on how large newspapers are redefining themselves, and the news, in an era of dwindling readership and growing financial pressures.  The course will look at online journalism, ethics, and alternative sources of news, and will explore the techniques journalists use in reporting the news.  Students will report and write four pieces of their own about Philadelphia and its environs.  The course is taught by Dan Rubin, metro columnist and former foreign correspondent for the Philadelphia Inquirer. \n\n The course is taught by Dan Rubin, metro columnist and former foreign correspondent for the Philadelphia Inquirer.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "252. Urban Journalism. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(J)", "crosslist": "(SOCI254)", "num": "253", "description": "SM 253. (SOCI254) Cities, Suburbs, and Their Regions. (J) Black. \n\nThis course will explore the political, economic, social, and demographic forces impacting development patterns in metropolitan areas, with a particular focus on Philadelphia.  We will examine the government policies, economic forces, and social attitudes that affect the way a region grows and develops. Specific topics to be discussed include the factors that make a region competitive, the city's changing role in the region, evolving regional housing markets, and the impacts of the recent global financial crisis on American markets, regions, institutions, and neighborhoods.\n\n(Course offered spring even-numbered years.)", "title": "253. (SOCI254) Cities, Suburbs, and Their Regions. (J)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "(AFRC255, HIST255)", "num": "255", "description": "SM 255. (AFRC255, HIST255) Urban Neighborhoods. (L) Staff. \n\nThe last several decades have witnessed a dramatic acceleration in the interconnection of cities around the world.  The globalization of the economy, the spread of communications technology, major migrations between urban locations, increasing disparities between rich and poor, the dramatic growth of the \"culture industries\", and the increasingly popular quest for \"place making\" through urban design have all contributed to this process.  This course will examine urban neighborhoods in the United States and elsewhere in the world.  In particular, class readings and discussions will explore the wide range of ways (political, social, cultural; organized and informal) that individuals and institutions in urban neighborhoods have reacted to global transformations and what effects and consequences those reactions have precipitated.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "255. (AFRC255, HIST255) Urban Neighborhoods. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "259", "description": "SM 259. Understanding the Post Industrial City: Media City - New Lifestyles, New Forms. (B) Thomas, Snyder. Previously URBS 429. \n\nUrban lifestyles have a reciprocal relationship with urban form.  While lifestyle might have been once determined by the circumstances of birth, limited horizons, and a hierarchical society, today social and physical mobility combined with increasing affluence makes lifestyle yet another choice in the construction of a modern identity.  Lifestyle choices have become an engine of urban growth and are instrumental in the transformation of urban life and form of the city.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "259. Understanding the Post Industrial City: Media City - New Lifestyles, New Forms. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HIST232)", "num": "260", "description": "SM 260. (HIST232) World Cities. (M) Staff. \n\nTopics vary; the title for fall 2009 is Cities in Chinese History.  This seminar will study the development of Chinese cities over the past two millennia with respect to their spatial structure, social constitution, economic system, political functions, and cultural representation (including cityscape paintings, maps and films).  As China transitioned from a collection of city-states to a united empire to nation state, Chinese urbanism underwent transformation as drastic as those of the country itself.  Cities, which serve as a critical mechanism for the operation of a vast agrarian empire/nation like China, offer a unique vantage point for us to observe and analyze the continuities and discontinuities between dynastic empires as well as the radical transition from empire to modern nation state. \n\n Topics include the city-state system in ancient China, the creation and evolution of imperial capitals, the medieval urban revolution and the subsequent collapse of classic city plans, the development of urban public sphere/public space in late imperial China, the rise of commercial power in urban politics, the negotiation of urban class and gender relations via cultural consumption, the role of cities in the building of a modern Chinese nation state, the anti-city experiment under the communist regime, urban citizenship in the reform era, as well as the expanding urbanization and shifting urbanism of Greater China as reflected in cinematic representation of Shanghai, Hong Kong and Taipei.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "260. (HIST232) World Cities. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(SOCI264)", "num": "264", "description": "SM 264. (SOCI264) Poverty, Race, and Health. (M) Elo. \n\nThis course is designed to introduce students to current literature on race/ethnic difference in health and mortality in the United States, covering such topics as explanations for why some race/ethnic groups fare better than others, how inner city poverty and residential segregation may contribute to racial/ethnic differences in health outcomes, and health of immigrants versus native-born populations.  Current policy debated and recent policy developments related to health are also briely discussed.  The course is organized as a seminar with a combination of lectures and class discussions. We will meet only once a week.  It is important that students attend seminars regularly and actively participate in class discussions.  There are four short assignments designed around the topics covered in class and students will be required to present data/information, pose questions, and lead class discussions as appropriate for each topic.  There will be one in-class exam towards the end of the course.  In addition, students are required to write a research paper (12_15 pages), which will consist of a health profile of a race/ethnic group of a student's choice and its possible explanations.  There are no prerequisites, although a prior sociology course and familiarity with a spreadsheet program would be useful.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "264. (SOCI264) Poverty, Race, and Health. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(GSOC007, SOCI007)", "num": "265", "description": "265. (GSOC007, SOCI007) Population and Society. (C) Society Sector. All classes. Flippen; Harknett; Kohler; Zuberi. \n\nThe course serves as an introduction to the study of population and demography, including issues pertaining to fertility, mortality, migration, and family formation and structure.  Within these broad areas we consider the social, economic, and political implications of current trends, including population explosion, baby bust, the impact of international migration on receiving societies, population aging, racial classification, growing diversity in household composition and family structure, population and environmental degradation, and the link between population and development/poverty.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "265. (GSOC007, SOCI007) Population and Society. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(AFRC272, CPLN676, SOCI270, URBS670)", "num": "270", "description": "SM 270. (AFRC272, CPLN676, SOCI270, URBS670) Ethnicity: The Immigrant City. (B) Society Sector. All classes. Vitiello. \n\nImmigration is a controversial issue, dividing Americans from Congress to big cities to small towns.  What's at stake in these debates?  What does immigration mean for cities and regions?  And what roles should policy makers, planners, and community organizations play in shaping migration and its impacts?  This course examines these questions in the context of immigrant, refugee, and receiving communities in the United States.  It surveys public policy and community and economic development practices related to migration, at the local, regional, and trans-national scale. \n\nClass readings, discussions, and regular visits to a variety of Philadelphia's immigrant neighborhoods explore themes including labor markets, political mobilization, social and cultural policy, and the built environment. \n\n The first half of the course surveys migration and community development among a broad range of ethnic groups in different parts of the city and suburbs; the second half focuses on specific policy and development initiatives. Assignments include an opportunity to work with immigrant-serving organizations.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "270. (AFRC272, CPLN676, SOCI270, URBS670) Ethnicity: The Immigrant City. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "272", "description": "SM 272. Architecture, Location, and Class in Philadelphia, 1780-1930. (A) Thomas. \n\nThis course studies the architecture of Philadelphia from the perspectives of aesthetic and social history.  Relationships between architectural patronage, design and location, and community values will be examined and their implications for understanding the built environment will be analyzed.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "272. Architecture, Location, and Class in Philadelphia, 1780-1930. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC145, ENGL145)", "num": "273", "description": "SM 273. (AFRC145, ENGL145) Current Topics in Urban Literature. (M) Staff. \n\nTopics vary.  The current topic is \"Writing in Concert.\" The class comprises two parts: teaching a common text and writing about the experience using memoir, reportage, and criticism.  Students will learn the common text in close reading, discussion, and preliminary essay exercises.  The idea is to develop an intimate relationship with a text, learn about yourself as a writer from your responses to it, and then, by creating a mini-course syllabus with lesson plans, learn how to help readers at different stages in life and literacy find their own ways to enter the text.  Learning the work takes three to four weeks; teaching requires four to six, with some overlap.  Students teach in several urban learning sites, each with its own challenges and charisma: high school English classes, a church-based book group, adult education centers, a recovery house, and homeless shelters.  In April, students attend a reading by Sonia Sanchez at Art Sanctuary, a North Philadelphia arts organization at the Church of the Advocate.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "273. (AFRC145, ENGL145) Current Topics in Urban Literature. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "290", "description": "SM 290. Metropolitan Nature: Urban Sustainability. (A) Nairn. \n\nMetropolitan Nature begins with the premise that in order to understand the comcomplex and skewed relationship between nature and its natural resource base, w we must examine different scales simultaneously.  The course explores a varietyof issues concerning natures role in the contemporary urban world with a focus on urban sustainability.  At its core, sustainability is a radical concept.  Co-opted by marketing slogans, stripped of meaning and context, it has become vague and pliable.  It does, however, have a real meaning, which will form the basis for examining nature in the city. Sustainability demands a systems view of both the economy and environment and understanding the management of their interactions.  The course focuses on the ecological aspects of the emerging field of ecological economics fostering an understanding of the ecological principles of urban sustainability.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "290. Metropolitan Nature: Urban Sustainability. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "300", "description": "SM 300. Fieldwork Seminar. (B) Staff. Urban Studies majors and minors only. \n\nStudents work 15-20 hours per week in field placement and meet weekly with class and instructors.  The class is intended to help students reflect from a variety of perspectives on the work that they are doing in their placement organizations.  The class format is primarily discussion.  Students are required to complete assigned readings, prepare written and oral presentations, and submit a final project.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "300. Fieldwork Seminar. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH312, HSOC321)", "num": "312", "description": "SM 312. (ANTH312, HSOC321) Health in Urban Communities. (A) Johnston. \n\nThis course will introduce students to anthropological approaches to health and to theories of participatory action research.  This combined theoretical perspective will then be put into practice using West Philadelphia community schools as a case study.  Students will become involved in design and implementation of health-related projects at an urban elementary or middle school.  As one of the course requirements, students will be expected to produce a detailed research proposal for future implementation.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "312. (ANTH312, HSOC321) Health in Urban Communities. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(GAFL710, PSCI320)", "num": "320", "description": "320. (GAFL710, PSCI320) Who Gets Elected and Why: The Science of Politics. (A) Rendell. \n\nCourse participants will study the stages and strategies in running for public office and discuss the role of various influences on getting elected, including campaign finance and fundraising, demographics, polling, the media, staffing, economics, party organization, etc.  The course will also examine how electoral politics varies by level- city, state, national.  Students will analyze campaign case studies and the career of the instructor himself.  The instructor will also bring in speakers who can provide other perspectives on electoral politics.  The instructor is the former Mayor of Philadelphia, former Chair of the Democratic National Committee, and the current Governor of Pennsylvania.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "320. (GAFL710, PSCI320) Who Gets Elected and Why: The Science of Politics. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(FNAR222, FNAR622)", "num": "322", "description": "322. (FNAR222, FNAR622) The Big Picture: Mural Arts in Philadelphia. (C) Golden/Walinsky/Gensler. Previously URBS 222. \n\nThe history and practice of the contemporary mural movement couples step-by- step analysis of the process of designing with painting a mural.  In addition, students will learn to see mural art as a tool for social change.  This course combines theory with practice.  Students will design and paint a large outdoor mural in West Philadelphia in collaboration with Philadelphia high school students and community groups.  The instructor, Jane Golden, is the founder and Director of the Philadelphia Mural Arts Program.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "322. (FNAR222, FNAR622) The Big Picture: Mural Arts in Philadelphia. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(EDUC323)", "num": "323", "description": "SM 323. (EDUC323) Tutoring in Urban Public Schools: Theory and Practice. (A) Staff. \n\nThis course represents an opportunity for undergraduate students to participate in academically based community service involving tutoring in a West Philadelphia public school.  This course will serve a need for those students who are already tutoring through the West Philadelphia Tutoring Project or other campus tutoring, and it will also be available to individuals who are interested in tutoring for the first time.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "323. (EDUC323) Tutoring in Urban Public Schools: Theory and Practice. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(EDUC326)", "num": "326", "description": "SM 326. (EDUC326) Tutoring in Urban Public Elementary Schools: A Child Development Perspective. (B) Fantuzzo. \n\nThe course provides an opportunity for undergraduate students to participate in academically based community service learning.  Student will be studying early childhood development and learning while providing direct, one-to-one tutoring services to young students in Philadelphia public elementary schools. The course will cover foundational dimensions of the cognitive and social development of preschool and elementary school students from a multicultural perspective.  The course will place a special emphasis on the multiple contexts that influence children's development and learning and how aspects of classroom environment (i.e., curriculum and classroom management strategies) can impact children's achievement.  Also, student will consider a range of larger issues impacting urban education embedded in American society.  The course structure has three major components: (1) lecture related directly to readings on early childhood development and key observation and listening skills necessary for effective tutoring, (2) weekly contact with a preschool or elementary school student as a volunteer tutor and active consideration of how to enhance the student learning, and (3) discussion and reflection of personal and societal issues related to being a volunteer tutor in a large urban public school.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "326. (EDUC326) Tutoring in Urban Public Elementary Schools: A Child Development Perspective. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(EDUC410)", "num": "327", "description": "SM 327. (EDUC410) Topics in Academically Based Community Service: Schools and Community Development. (C) Puckett/Simon. First class meeting is January 14 from 12:30-3:30 in McNeil 130.  Subsequent classes will meet at West Philadelphia High School; transportation will be provided. \n\nThe current course is \"Schools and Community Development: A Collaboration with West Philadelphia High School Urban Leadership Academy.\" This seminar engages Penn undergraduates with West Philadelphia High School teachers and students to assist in planning an urban studies academy at both the existing and the proposed new high school. \n\nThis planning includes developing curricular activities, mapping institutional resources to support curriculum development, and designing school-based public-works projects. \n\n First class meeting is January 14 from 12:30-3:30 in McNeil 130.  Subsequent classes will meet at West Philadelphia High School; transportation will be provided.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "327. (EDUC410) Topics in Academically Based Community Service: Schools and Community Development. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(URBS530)", "num": "330", "description": "SM 330. (URBS530) GIS Applications in Social Science. (A) Hillier. Previously URBS 230; Fulfills the Qualitative Data Analysis Requirement. \n\nThis course will introduce students to the principles behind Geographic Information Science and applications of (GIS) in the social sciences. Examples of GIS applications in social services, public health, criminology, real estate, environmental justice, education, history, and urban studies will be used to illustrate how GIS integrates, displays, and facilitates analysis of spatial data through maps and descriptive statistics.  Students will learn to create data sets through primary and secondary data collection, map their own data, and create maps to answer research questions.  The course will consist of a combination of lecture and lab.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "330. (URBS530) GIS Applications in Social Science. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(HIST367, SOCI367)", "num": "367", "description": "L/R 367. (HIST367, SOCI367) Philadelphia, 1700-2000. (M) Sugrue. \n\nUsing Philadelphia as a lens, this course will examine the transformation of American cities from the colonial period to the present.  Through readings, lectures, and tours, we will consider urbanization and suburbanization, race, class, and ethnicity, economic development, poverty and inequality, housing and neighborhood change, urban institutions, and politics and public policy.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "367. (HIST367, SOCI367) Philadelphia, 1700-2000. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "390", "description": "SM 390. Urban Agriculture. (L) Nairn. \n\nUrban Agriculture is a growing global trend.  This course examines urban agriculture as an issue of sustainablity, social justice, public health, and vacant land.  It explores the potential of urban agriculture in both the Global North and South to provide a safe and secure source of food to city residents.  Major topics include sustainable agricultural practices, operational and spatial requirements, distribution systems, and access to fresh food.  Using Philadelphia as a laboratory, the course explores its robust agricultural scene of community gardens, guerilla gardens, and entrepreneurial farms, as well as its distribution system including programs such as City harvest, the emerging Common Market, and established farmers' markets.  The course will integrate lectures about sustainable agricultural practices with field trips to and hands-on work at community gardens and farms.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "390. Urban Agriculture. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "400", "description": "SM 400. Senior Seminar. (A) Schneider/Simon. Prerequisite(s): URBS 200; URBS 300. \n\nSenior research project.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "400. Senior Seminar. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CPLN506, ENGL429, GAFL472, SOCI430, SOCI530)", "num": "403", "description": "SM 403. (CPLN506, ENGL429, GAFL472, SOCI430, SOCI530) Special Topics in Urban Studies. (M) Staff. \n\nTopics vary each semester; The current title is The Social Life of Urban Spaces.  The purpose of this ABCS course is to examine everyday behavior and public life in the urban environment, with a particular emphasis on understanding face- to-face social interactions among members of the University of Pennsylvania community and local neighborhood residents.  Through assigned readings, intensive classroom discussions, and numerous fieldwork projects, students will explore a range of relevant topics: the uses of small urban spaces, including sidewalks, parks, plazas, and commercial hangouts; local security strategies and the role of the police; and the daily rounds of nightshift workers, the homeless, and the working poor.  In addition, students will conduct several hours per week of service work at the Foundation at the Rotunda, a local nonprofit community arts and performance space that aims to facilitate the growth of meaningful partnerships between the University and the surrounding West Philadelphia community.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "403. (CPLN506, ENGL429, GAFL472, SOCI430, SOCI530) Special Topics in Urban Studies. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "404", "description": "SM 404. Philanthropy & The City. (A) Goldman/Bauer. \n\nThis course will focus on how cities are shaped by the nonprofit sector and the philanthropic dollars that fuel their work.  By bridging theory and practice, the class explores what dynamics are at play to deliver vital services or programs in healthcare, education, the arts, community development, and other issues.  The course will also focus on two important questions: (1) Whose responsibility is the public good? and (2) Given that responsibility for the public good in which individuals and groups make the decisions about how to serve the public good, how are these decisions made, and who benefits from these decisions?  Students will consider these questions in an interdisciplinary context that will bring a historical and philosophical perspective to the examination of the values and institutions that characterize the contemporary nonprofit sector.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "404. Philanthropy & The City. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(AFRC405, HIST405, RELS439)", "num": "405", "description": "SM 405. (AFRC405, HIST405, RELS439) Religion, Social Justice and Urban Development. (B) Lamas. \n\nUrban development has been influenced by religious conceptions of social and economic justice.  Progressive traditions within Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and Humanism have yielded powerful critiques of oppression and hierarchy as well as alternative economic frameworks for ownership, governance, production, labor, and community. \n\nHistorical and contemporary case studies from the Americas, Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East will be considered, as we examine the ways in which religious responses to poverty, inequality, and ecological destruction have generated new forms of urban development.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "405. (AFRC405, HIST405, RELS439) Religion, Social Justice and Urban Development. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(ANTH305, ANTH609)", "num": "409", "description": "SM 409. (ANTH305, ANTH609) Anthropology and Policy: History, Theory, Practice. (B) Sabloff. \n\nFrom the inception of the discipline, anthropologists have applied their ethnographic and theoretical knowledge to policy issues concerning the alleviation of practical human problems.  This approach has not only benefited peoples in need, but it has also enriched the discipline, providing anthropologists with the opportunity to develop new theories and methodologies from a problem-centered approach.  This class will examine the connection between anthropology and policy, theory and practice (or \"praxis\"), research, and application.  We will study these connections by reading about historical and current projects.  As an academically based research course, students will also volunteer in a volunteer ogranization of their choice in the Philadelphia area, conduct anthropological research on the organization, and suggest ways that the anthropological approach might support the efforts of the organization.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "409. (ANTH305, ANTH609) Anthropology and Policy: History, Theory, Practice. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(FNAR201, SWRK510, URBS510)", "num": "410", "description": "SM 410. (FNAR201, SWRK510, URBS510) Urban Communities and the Arts: Research & Policy. (M) Stern. This course may not be counted as a required studio course for Fine Arts major and minor. \n\nThis course will explore methods for examining the role that arts and cultural activities play in urban communities and its implications for urban policy. The course will focus on: 1) examining theories of culture's social impact and how they might be used to formulate research; 2) methods for conducting research on arts and culture; and 3) how cultural research is relevant for various spheres of urban policy, including community development, urban economies, and the needs of children and youth.  The major project for the course will require students to collaborate with community resources in studying the connection of theory, research, and policy.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "410. (FNAR201, SWRK510, URBS510) Urban Communities and the Arts: Research & Policy. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(L)", "crosslist": "", "num": "412", "description": "412. Building Non-Profits from the Ground Up. (L) Guard, Gehrig. \n\nThis course, taught by The Philadelphia Award winner (2005), will cover the basic elements of building and growing a non-profit organization, including the development of the mission and the board; needs assessment, program design, development, and management; financial management, contract compliance and understanding an audit; fundraising, public, foundation, corporate, and individual; communication and marketing; organizational administration (including staff and volunteer selection, management and development); public policy, research and advocacy.  Students will engage in field assignments and role play, in addition to research and writing.\n\n(Course offered in summer term only.)", "title": "412. Building Non-Profits from the Ground Up. (L)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "415", "description": "SM 415. Urban Real Estate Markets. (B) Kozloff. \n\nCities evolve over time, comprised of various inputs of different sizes at different sizes at different stages of urban evolution.  However, as cities continue to densify and navigate real estate market cycles, opportunities to redefine the urban context, while promoting the individual brand, become ever more sensitive.  Projects are getting increasingly complex, often involving multiple partnerships among private developmers, public agencies, non-profits, and community groups.  Today's development professionals need to be well-versed across a varitey of disciplines and property types to effectively execute in an urban environment.  As such, this course will provide the underpinnings for critical decision-making in markets that change frequently and often unevely - whether for financing, investing, development, public policy formulation, or assest management/disposition.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "415. Urban Real Estate Markets. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CPLN621)", "num": "416", "description": "416. (CPLN621) Metropolitan Food Systems. (M) Vitiello. Prerequisite(s): Undergraduates must have some background working in planning and community development and/or food systems. \n\nThis course introduces students to the planning and development of metropolitan food systems.  Major topics include regional planning and policy, sustainable agriculture, food access and distribution, and markets.  The class includes a mix of lectures, discussion, and field trips; students will work on real-world projects in Philadelphia.  Ultimately, the course aims to develop students' broad knowledge of food systems planning in the global North and South, with an emphasis on community and economic development strategies for sustainable food systems and food security. \n\n The course is divided into four units, covering: 1) an introduction to food systems (industrial, organic, local), related ecological theory, and traditional planning institutions' roles in shaping food systems; 2) community food security, hunger, and related public policy; 3) community and economic development strategies and techniques for promoting local food economies and community food security; and 4) sustainable agriculature and food distribution sytems at the site, neighborhood, and city scale. \n\n For undergraduates, this course is by permission of instructor only.  Students interested in taking the course should ideally have some background working in planning and community development and/or food systems.  Undergraduates must submit a one-paragraph statement explaining their preparation and interest in the topic by January 12 to urbs@sas.upenn.edu.  Students will be notified of enrollment by the first class meeting in January.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "416. (CPLN621) Metropolitan Food Systems. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(SOCI420)", "num": "420", "description": "SM 420. (SOCI420) Perspectives on Urban Poverty. (C) Staff. \n\nThis course provides an interdisciplinary introduction to various perspectives and philosophies that have dominated the discourse on urban poverty throughout history.  The course is primarily concerned with the ways in which historical, cultural, political, racial, social, geographical, and economic forces have either shaped or been left out of contemporary debates on urban poverty.  Of great importance, the course will evaluate competing knowledge systems and their respective implications in terms of the questions of what can be known about urban poverty in the contexts of policy circles, academic literature, and the broader social imaginary.  We will critically analyze a wide body of literature seeking to theorize urban poverty, ranging from sociological, anthropological/ethnographic, geographical, Marxist, historical, social welfare, and cultural analyses.  Primacy will be granted to critical analysis of course readings, particularly with regard to the ways in which various knowledge systems - or \"regimes of truth\" - create, sustain, and constrict meaning in reference to urban poverty.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "420. (SOCI420) Perspectives on Urban Poverty. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CPLN528)", "num": "428", "description": "SM 428. (CPLN528) Research Seminar in 21st Century Urbanism. (B) \n\nA seminar run in conjunction with the Institute for Urban Research at Penn, students will learn about the range of cutting-edge topics in urbanism that Penn faculty are working on and work closely with a faculty member on current research.  Students will learn about new topics and methods in interdisciplinary urban research, and get first hand experience collecting urban data under the close supervision of an experienced researcher.  Students and faculty jointly will present their findings for discussion.  This course is a good introduction for how to frame and conduct an urban research project.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "428. (CPLN528) Research Seminar in 21st Century Urbanism. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(CPLN500)", "num": "440", "description": "L/R 440. (CPLN500) Introduction to City Planning: Past, Present, and Future. (A) Staff. \n\nOrientation to the profession, tracing the evolution of city and regional planning from its late nineteenth century roots to its twentieth century expression.  Field trips included.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "440. (CPLN500) Introduction to City Planning: Past, Present, and Future. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(AFRC448)", "num": "448", "description": "SM 448. (AFRC448) Neighborhood Displacement and Community Power. (B) Palmer. \n\nThis course uses the history of black displacement to examine community power and advocacy.  It examines the methods of advocacy (e.g. case, class, and legislative) and political action through which community activists can influence social policy development and community and institutional change. The course also analyzes selected strategies and tactics of change and seeks to develop alternative roles in the group advocacy, lobbying, public education and public relations, electoral politics, coalition building, and legal and ethical dilemmas in political action.  Case studies of neighborhood displacement serve as central means of examining course topics.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "448. (AFRC448) Neighborhood Displacement and Community Power. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "", "num": "450", "description": "SM 450. Urban Redevelopment. (B) Gorostiza. \n\nThis course is designed to acquaint students with the fundamental skills and techniques of real estate property development.  It is designed as a first course for anyone interested in how to be a developer, and as a foundation for further courses in urban development and real estate.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "450. Urban Redevelopment. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(GAFL569)", "num": "451", "description": "451. (GAFL569) The Politics of Housing & Community Development. (A) Kromer. \n\nThis course offers an exploration of how legislative action, government policymaking, and citizen advocacy influence plans for the investment of public capital in distressed urban downtowns and neighborhoods.  A special emphasis this year will be the Obama Administration's response to the foreclosure crisis and the implementation of neighborhood reinvestment strategies by state and local governments.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "451. (GAFL569) The Politics of Housing & Community Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "452", "description": "SM 452. Community Economic Development. (A) Lamas. \n\nCommunity economic development concerns the revitalization of impoverished communities.  As with all things economic, poor and working people may be the subjects or the objects of development.  We will utilize case studies from Philadelphia and around the world in an exploration of various models of economic justice and sustainable development.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "452. Community Economic Development. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CPLN545, SOCI453, URBS543)", "num": "453", "description": "SM 453. (CPLN545, SOCI453, URBS543) Metropolitan Growth & Urban Poverty. (M) Madden. \n\nThis course analyzes the role of metropolitan regions in the U.S. and global economies, including the sources of metropolitan productivity, the ways that metropolitan structures affect residents, and analyses of public policy in metropolitan areas.  The economic, political, and social forces that have shaped World War II urban and regional development are explored, including technology, demography, and government.  Special attention is paid to how metropolitan change affects residents by income and race.  Topics include: gentrification, schools, suburbanization, sprawl, metropolitan fragmentation, concentration of poverty, race, and various economic revitalization initiatives.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "453. (CPLN545, SOCI453, URBS543) Metropolitan Growth & Urban Poverty. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CPLN559, SWRK712, URBS554)", "num": "454", "description": "SM 454. (CPLN559, SWRK712, URBS554) City Limits: The Impact of Urban Policy. (B) Goldstein, Stern. Prerequisite(s): Student must have taken an introduction to research methods course. \n\nThis course assesses the changing role of public policy in American cities. In the past, government often believed that it could direct urban development. New realities - the rise of an informal labor market, global capital and labor flows, the flight of businesses and the middle class to the suburbs - have demonstrated that government must see itself as one - but only one - 'player' in a more complete, transactional process of policy making that crosses political boundaries and involves business, organized interest groups, and citizens. \n\n This seminar uses a case-study method to study how public policy can make a difference in the revitalization of distressed American cities.  The seminar is designed for advanced undergraduates and graduate students.  Seminar readings and projects will be organized around three themes: 1) history and vision, 2) data and analysis, and 3) policy and implementation.  Students will be divided into project teams assigned to work on current development issues that will be reviewed by both public and private-sector experts.  Extensive use will be made of real estate, economic development, and social indicator data to understand the complex forces at work in both large and small cities. Students will learn to access, analyze, and map information; to frame and interpret these data within a regional perspective; and to construct profiles of cities and neighborhoods.  Students will study recent urban redevelopment initiatives in the Philadelphia region, including Philadelphia's Neighborhood Transformations Initiative and New Jersey's Camden Revitalization plans.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "454. (CPLN559, SWRK712, URBS554) City Limits: The Impact of Urban Policy. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "", "num": "456", "description": "SM 456. Economics & Urban Affairs. (A) Angelides. \n\nThis course discusses contemporary urban issues from an economics perspective, with the dual goal of illuminating the economic foundations of civic affairs and enhancing a student's economic literacy through the use of everyday examples.  The first part of the course discusses the broad theory of urban economics by focusing on individual decision makers, both households and businesses, and the incentives they face as the key to understanding how cities operate economically.  Significant topics include economic development, zoning, and land use.  The second part of the course discusses several topics in detail, including transportation, government taxation and spending, housing, education, and cost-benefit analysis. \n\n We will use current local issues as examples in the course.  These issues will include tax reform, the development of the Delaware riverfront, casino locations, the ten-year tax abatements for new construction and rehabilitation, the real estate \"bubble,\" and tax increment financing.  At the conclusion of the course the student will be able to apply economic thinking to the analysis of civic issues, understand how economic forces shaped and continue to shape the urban environment, and appreciate the role of government as an enabler or a hindrance. \n\n The emphasis of the course is on the usefulness of economic thought and, as such, focuses more on policy implications than abstract economic modeling. Thecourse will teach any necessary economic tools, though an introductory course in microeconomics is helpful.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "456. Economics & Urban Affairs. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(SOCI435)", "num": "457", "description": "SM 457. (SOCI435) Globalization and Comparative Urban Development. (M) Von Mahs; Hill. \n\nThis seminar title varies depending on which term it is being offered.  The title in the summer term is \"Globalization and the Welfare State.\" During the academic year, the title is \"Globalization and the City.\" Check the Urban Studies program for corresponding descriptions.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "457. (SOCI435) Globalization and Comparative Urban Development. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(AFRC460, EDUC545, URBS560)", "num": "460", "description": "SM 460. (AFRC460, EDUC545, URBS560) School Reform and Public Policy. (A) \n\nThis course will examine how changes in the global economy require America's schools to educate all students to new and demanding standards, and will review the arguments why the current school system, designed for a different economy and a different century, must be fundamentally reorganized if the nation is to succeed in meeting its human capital development challenge.Topics covered will include school funding and governance, the precedent-breaking federal legislation, No Child Left Behind, and charter schools and the voucher movement.  Students can effect real- world change through research designed to elaborate the comprehensive school-reform model developed at Penn's Operation Public Education, which is now being piloted in some of the nation's schools.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "460. (AFRC460, EDUC545, URBS560) School Reform and Public Policy. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ENVS463, URBS663)", "num": "463", "description": "SM 463. (ENVS463, URBS663) Brownfield Remediation: The Historical, Scientific, and Policy Dimensions of \"Brownfields\" in Old Industrial Cities. (M) Keene. \n\nThis course gives an overview of the genesis of the so-called \"Brownfield\" problem and of the various efforts that our society is taking to try to solve, or at least ameliorate it.  The course will place the \"Brownfield\" problem in the broader context of the growth and decline of industrial base cities like Philadelphia.  Students will study the general constitutional and statutory framework within which we approach the problems of orphan, polluted sites and the disposal of contemporary solid wastes.  They will also analyze the principal actions that have been taken by federal and state governments to address remediation and redevelopment of abandoned industrial sites.  In addition, the course will explore environmental equity issues.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "463. (ENVS463, URBS663) Brownfield Remediation: The Historical, Scientific, and Policy Dimensions of \"Brownfields\" in Old Industrial Cities. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CPLN467)", "num": "467", "description": "SM 467. (CPLN467) Global Cities in the 21st Century. (B) Birch. \n\nA survey of worldwide urbanization, focusing on development disparities among cities in the Global North and Global South and within each area, with special attention to the provision of housing, basic infrastructure (water, sanitation, transportation) and social and health services.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "467. (CPLN467) Global Cities in the 21st Century. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC472)", "num": "472", "description": "SM 472. (AFRC472) Race and the City: The Origins & Prospects of the Black Underclass. (M) Hershberg. \n\nThis course focuses on the origins and prospects of the black underclass and the competing public policies proposed to bring this group into the economic mainstream.  The course is particularly concerned with understanding the separate effects on the underclass of racial discrimination and recent structural changes in the economy, transportation, and housing, which have shaped central cities and their regions.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "472. (AFRC472) Race and the City: The Origins & Prospects of the Black Underclass. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(SOCI473)", "num": "473", "description": "SM 473. (SOCI473) Community Organizing: History and Theory. (M) Staff. \n\nPower is an ability to create change.  Without access to power that might otherwise come from political, financial or personal networks, community organizing can often serve as the only viable source of power for the oppressed. \n\nOrganizing unfortunately became a partisan buzzword during the 2008 presidential campaign, but it has played a central role in US history sincethe Populist movement of the late 19th century, most notably as the foundation of the Civil Rights movement.  This course will integrate the history and theories of community organizing in order to develop a praxis for each student to create change in their own communities.  Focused analysis of several key texts, inquiry, and problem-posing methods rooted in the student's own context will serve as the primary means of study.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "473. (SOCI473) Community Organizing: History and Theory. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(AFRC480)", "num": "480", "description": "SM 480. (AFRC480) Liberation and Ownership. (A) Lamas. \n\nWho is going to own what we all have a part in creating?  The history of the Americas, and of all peoples everywhere, is an evolving answer to the question of ownership.  Ownership is about the ties that bind and those that separate, the creation of community and the imposition of hierarchies, the dream of home ownership and ecological despoliation, dependency and the slave yearning to breathe free.  Of all the issues relevant to democracy, oppression, and economic injustice, ownership is arguably the most important and least understood.  Utilizing a variety of disciplinary perspectives, and by focusing on particular global sites, students will assess and refine their views regarding ownership in light of their own social, political, religious, and/or ethical commitments.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "480. (AFRC480) Liberation and Ownership. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC488, AFST489, HIST489)", "num": "489", "description": "SM 489. (AFRC488, AFST489, HIST489) Africans Abroad: Philadelphia's Muslim African Immigrants. (M) Cassanelli, Babou, Dinar. \n\nThis seminar will examine the experiences of recent Muslim emigrants and refugees from Africa, focusing on those now living in the city of Philadelphia and the surrounding region.  In addition to reading historical and comparative literature on migration, ethnic diasporas, and transnationalism, students will have the opportunity to conduct research on specific African communities in Philadelphia and possibly other cities in our region.  African emigres' relations with both their home and host societies will be explored and compared with the experience of other immigrant groups, both Muslim and non-Muslim, over the past century.  Topics include reasons for leaving Africa, patterns of economic and educational adaptation abroad, changes in gender and generational roles, issues of cultural and religious identity, and the impact of national immigration policies.  Students will have the opportunity to help create an archive of Muslim immigrant literature and music and to contribute to a documentary video, with support from a grant from the SSRC's \"Academia in the Public Sphere\" Program.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "489. (AFRC488, AFST489, HIST489) Africans Abroad: Philadelphia's Muslim African Immigrants. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(CPLN672, URBS206)", "num": "506", "description": "SM 506. (CPLN672, URBS206) Advanced Topics in Urban Studies. (M) Staff. \n\nUrban Studies offers various seminars under this course number.  These courses explore current urban issues.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "506. (CPLN672, URBS206) Advanced Topics in Urban Studies. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(FNAR201, SWRK510, URBS410)", "num": "510", "description": "SM 510. (FNAR201, SWRK510, URBS410) Urban Communities & The Arts. (M) Stern. \n\nThis course will explore methods for examining the role that arts and cultural activities play in urban communities and its implications for urban policy. The course will focus on: 1) examining theories of culture's social impact and how they might be used to formulate research; 2) methods for conducting research on arts and culture; and 3) how cultural research is relevant for various spheres of urban policy, including community development, urban economies, and the needs of children and youth.  The major project for the course will require students to collaborate with community resources in studying the connection of theory, research, and policy.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "510. (FNAR201, SWRK510, URBS410) Urban Communities & The Arts. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(ANTH516)", "num": "516", "description": "SM 516. (ANTH516) Public Interest Workshop. (A) Sanday. \n\nThis is an interdisciplinary workshop sponsored by Peggy Reeves Sanday (Dept. of Anthropology) with guest speakers from Communication Studies and other fields.  Open to graduate and advanced undergraduate students, the workshop is a response to Amy Gutmann's call for interdisciplinary cooperation across the University and to the Dept. of Anthropology's commitment to developing public- interest research and practice as a disciplinary theme.  The workshop will be run as an open interdisciplinary forum on framing a public-interest social science that ties theory and action.  Students are encouraged to apply the framing model to a public-interest research and action topic of their choice. Examples of public interest topics to be discussed in class and through outside speakers include the meaning of \"public interest,\" the ways in which the public interest is/is not addressed in the academy, and the relationship between studying the public interest and promoting social justice.  This is an academicallybased community-service (ABCS) course.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "516. (ANTH516) Public Interest Workshop. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(URBS330)", "num": "530", "description": "SM 530. (URBS330) GIS Applications in Social Science. (A) Hillier. \n\nThis course will introduce students to the principles behind Geographic Information Science and applications of (GIS) in the social sciences. Examples of GIS applications in social services, public health, criminology, real estate, environmental justice, education, history, and urban studies will be used to illustrate how GIS integrates, displays, and facilitates analysis of spatial data through maps and descriptive statistics.  Students will learn to create data sets, through primary and secondary data collection, map their own data, and create maps to answer research questions.  The course will consist of a combination of lecture and lab.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "530. (URBS330) GIS Applications in Social Science. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH547, EDUC547)", "num": "547", "description": "547. (ANTH547, EDUC547) Anthropology & Education. (C) Lukose, Hall. \n\nAn introduction to the intent, approach, and contribution of anthropology to the study of socialization and schooling in cross-cultural perspective. Education is examined in traditional, colonial, and complex industrial societies.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "547. (ANTH547, EDUC547) Anthropology & Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "(SOCI553)", "num": "553", "description": "SM 553. (SOCI553) Field Methods in Qualitative Research. (E) Grazian. \n\nThis course is designed to introduce graduate students to basic concepts and skills in ethnographic field research in the social sciences, including participant observation, interviewing, field documentation, and the scholarly presentation of qualitative data.  Students will learn to apply these concepts and skills through a regularly assigned set of field exercises, and will be expected to complete a semester-long project based on intensive fieldwork at a research site of their choosing.  In addition, we will examine both classic and contemporary exemplars of fieldwork in the sociological discipline, and address contemporary issues in ethnographic research, including the role of global and comparative ethnography, reflexivity, and self-presentation in ethnographic writing, and the role of culture in organizing social life in both urban and institutional settings.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "553. (SOCI553) Field Methods in Qualitative Research. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CPLN559, SWRK712, URBS454)", "num": "554", "description": "SM 554. (CPLN559, SWRK712, URBS454) City Limits: The Impact of Urban Policy. (B) Goldstein, Stern. Prerequisite(s): Student must have taken a research methods course. \n\nThis course assesses the changing role of public policy in American cities. In the past, government often believed that it could direct urban development. New realities - the rise of an informal labor market, global capital and labor flows, the flight of businesses and the middle class to the suburbs - have demonstrated that government must see itself as one - but only one - 'player' in a more complete, transactional process of policy making that crosses political boundaries and involves business, organized interest groups, and citizens. \n\n This seminar uses a case study method to study how public policy can make a difference in the revitalization of distressed American cities.  The seminar is designed for advanced undergraduates and graduate students.  Seminar readings and projects will be organized around three themes: 1) history and vision, 2) data and analysis, and 3) policy and implementation.  Students will be divided into project teams assigned to work on current development issues that will be reviewed by both public and private-sector experts.  Extensive use will be made of real estate, economic development, and social indicator data to understand the complex forces at work in both large and small cities. Students will learn to access, analyze, and map information; to frame and interpret these data within a regional perspective; and to construct profiles of cities and neighborhoods.  Students will study recent urban redevelopment initiatives in the Philadelphia region - including Philadelphia's Neighborhood Transformations Initiative and New Jersey's Camden Revitalization plans.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "554. (CPLN559, SWRK712, URBS454) City Limits: The Impact of Urban Policy. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(URBS460)", "num": "560", "description": "SM 560. (URBS460) School Reform and Public Policy. (A) Hershberg. \n\nThis course will examine how changes in the global economy require America's schools to educate all students to new and demanding standards, and will review the arguments why the current school system, designed for a different economy and a different century, must be fundamentally reorganized if the nation is to succeed in meeting its human capital development challenge.Topics covered will include school funding and governance, the precedent-breaking federal legislation, No Child Left Behind, and charter schools and the voucher movement.  Students can effect real- world change through research designed to elaborate the comprehensive school-reform model developed at Penn's Operation Public Education, which is now being piloted in some of the nation's schools.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "560. (URBS460) School Reform and Public Policy. (A)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(EDUC566)", "num": "566", "description": "566. (EDUC566) Cross Cultural Awareness. (C) \n\nThis course provides students experiential and cognitive awareness through affective exercises and readings.  It explores issues of living in a diverse society through a variety of educational strategies including workshops, small group process, guest lectures, etc.  It represents the seminar portion of P.A.C.E. (Programs for Awareness in Cultural Education): An \"Educating the Peer Educator\" Program.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "566. (EDUC566) Cross Cultural Awareness. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(SOCI567)", "num": "567", "description": "SM 567. (SOCI567) Urban Sociology. (M) Grazian. \n\nThis course will examine the urban structures and processes that characterize the social and cultural milieu of the contemporary American city.  Specific course topics will include the social organization of local urban subcultures and neighborhood communities, the cultural consequences of gentrification and racial segregation, the reputation of cities in the public imagination, and the commodification of the urban landscape.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "567. (SOCI567) Urban Sociology. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(E)", "crosslist": "(HIST608, SOCI608)", "num": "608", "description": "SM 608. (HIST608, SOCI608) Proseminar in Urban Studies. (E) Katz. \n\nThis seminar is required for students in the Urban Studies Graduate Certificate Program.  They will be given preference for enrollment, which is limited to 15.  The course is designed for Ph.D. students who intend to do urban-related research.  It is not open to undergraduates.  Master's Degree students will be allowed to enroll only in special circumstances and with the permission of the instructor.  To earn credit for the Graduate Certificate Program, students must enroll for both fall and spring semesters.  Other students may take only the fall semester.  Enrollment for the spring semester alone is not permitted.  In the fall, the seminar will focus on interdisciplinary readings concerned with the history of American cities in the twentieth century.  In the spring, students will write a major research paper and meet with scholars and practitioners who exemplify a variety of careers in urban research.\n\n(Two terms. Student must enter first term. Credit is given only on the completion of both terms.)", "title": "608. (HIST608, SOCI608) Proseminar in Urban Studies. (E)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(EDUC619)", "num": "619", "description": "619. (EDUC619) Critical Perpectives in Contemporary Urban Education. (C) Schultz. \n\nThe focus of this course is the conditions for teaching and learning in urban public schools, current theories of pedagogy in urban education, and perspectives on urban reform efforts.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "619. (EDUC619) Critical Perpectives in Contemporary Urban Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(AFRC623, GAFL620, SOCI623)", "num": "623", "description": "SM 623. (AFRC623, GAFL620, SOCI623) Workshop in Urban Ethnography. (M) Staff. \n\nThe ethnographic and sociological interpretation of urban life.  Conceptual and methodological issues will be thoroughly discussed.  Ongoing projects of participants will be presented in a \"workshop\" format, thus providing participants the opportunity of learning from and contributing to ethnographic work in progress.  Selected ethnographic works will be read and assessed.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "623. (AFRC623, GAFL620, SOCI623) Workshop in Urban Ethnography. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(SOCI624)", "num": "624", "description": "SM 624. (SOCI624) Race Relations in American Cities. (M) Staff. \n\nThe ethnographic study of race relations in the United States.  The social life and culture of urban race relations in the United States will be emphasized, stressing conceptual and methodological issues.  Selected ethnographic literature will be read and discussed.  Students will be expected to carry out an ethnographic site study.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "624. (SOCI624) Race Relations in American Cities. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(M)", "crosslist": "(ENVS463, ENVS663, URBS463)", "num": "663", "description": "SM 663. (ENVS463, ENVS663, URBS463) Brownfield Remediation: The Historical, Scientific, and Policy Dimensions of Brownfields in Old Industrial Cities. (M) Keene. \n\nThis course gives an overview of the genesis of the so-called \"Brownfield\" problem and of the various efforts that our society is taking to try to solve, or at least ameliorate it.  The course will place the \"Brownfield\" problem in the broader context of the growth and decline of the industrial base of cities like Philadelphia.  Students will study the general constitutional and statutory framework within which we approach the problems of orphan, polluted sites and the disposal of contemporary solid wastes.  They will also analyze the principal actions that have been taken by federal and state governments to address remediation and redevelopment of abandoned industrial sites.  In addition, the course will explore environmental equity issues.\n\n(Course not offered every year.)", "title": "663. (ENVS463, ENVS663, URBS463) Brownfield Remediation: The Historical, Scientific, and Policy Dimensions of Brownfields in Old Industrial Cities. (M)"}, {"offercode": "(B)", "crosslist": "(CPLN676, URBS270)", "num": "670", "description": "SM 670. (CPLN676, URBS270) Ethnicity: The Immigrant City. (B) \n\nImmigration is a controversial issue, dividing Americans from Congress to big cities to small towns.  What's at stake in these debates?  What does immigration mean for cities and regions?  And what roles should policy makers, planners, and community organizations play in shaping migration and its impacts?  This course examines these questions in the context of immigrant, refugee, and receiving communities in the United States.  It surveys public policy and community and economic development practices related to migration, at the local, regional, and trans-national scale. \n\nClass readings, discussions, and regular visits to a variety of Philadelphia's immigrant neighborhoods explore themes including labor markets, political mobilization, social and cultural policy, and the built environment. \n\n The first half of the course surveys migration and community development among a broad range of ethnic groups in different parts of the city and suburbs; the second half focuses on specific policy and development initiatives. Assignments include an opportunity to work with immigrant-serving organizations.\n\n(Course offered in spring term only.)", "title": "670. (CPLN676, URBS270) Ethnicity: The Immigrant City. (B)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(EDUC672, FOLK672)", "num": "672", "description": "672. (EDUC672, FOLK672) Introduction to Ethnographic and Qualitative Research in Education. (C) Hall, Wortham. \n\nA first course in ethnographic participant observational research, its substantive orientation, literature, and methods. \n\nEmphasis is on the interpretive study of social organization and culture in educational settings, formal and informal. \n\nMethods of data collection and analysis, critical review of examples of ethnographic research reports, and research design and proposal preparation are among the topics and activities included in this course.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "672. (EDUC672, FOLK672) Introduction to Ethnographic and Qualitative Research in Education. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(C)", "crosslist": "(ANTH704, COML706, EDUC706, FOLK706)", "num": "706", "description": "706. (ANTH704, COML706, EDUC706, FOLK706) Culture/Power/Identities. (C) Lukose, Hall. Prerequisite(s): EDUC/URBS 547. \n\nThis course will introduce students to a conceptual language and the theoretical tools to analyze the complex dynamics of racial, ethnic, gender, sexual, and class differences.  The students will critically examine the interrelationships between culture, power, and identities through the recent contributions in cultural studies, critical pedagogy and post- structuralist theory and will explore the usefulness of these ideas for improving their own work as researchers and as practitioners.\n\n(One-term course offered either term.)", "title": "706. (ANTH704, COML706, EDUC706, FOLK706) Culture/Power/Identities. (C)"}, {"offercode": "(A)", "crosslist": "(CPLN714)", "num": "714", "description": "714. (CPLN714) Policy Analysis & Program Evaluation for Planning. (A) Wong. \n\nExploration of the intended and unintended consequences of public policy pertaining to land use, transportation, housing, education, growth management and economic development.\n\n(Course offered in fall term only.)", "title": "714. (CPLN714) Policy Analysis & Program Evaluation for Planning. (A) "}]